label 24	WORLD BANK TO SUPPORT SRI LANKA IF DEFICITS CUT The World Bank will support Sri Lanka's development program provided the country reduces its budget and current account deficits, the Ministry of Finance said. It said Bank President Barber Conable at a meeting with Sri Lanka's Finance Minister Ronnie de Mel in Washington also emphasised the need for structural adjustment and reform to the economy, battered by five years of separatist disturbances. Officials said Sri Lanka's budget deficit this year is expected to surpass the projected 28.7 billion rupees while defence spending, already up by two billion rupees from a targetted 10 billion, is also likely grow. The Ministry said de Mel asked the World Bank to give Sri Lanka 6.5 billion rupees balance of payments support.  
label 24	SPAIN HAS 35 MLN DLR CURRENT SURPLUS FEBRUARY Spain had a 35 mln dlr current account surplus in February compared with a 68 mln dlr surplus in January and a 355 mln dlr surplus in February last year, Bank of Spain figures show. Spain's trade deficit narrowed to 581 mln dlrs compared with 664 mln dlrs in January but the large increase in non-oil imports contributed to the substantial increase over the 159 mln dlr deficit registered in February 1986. Exports at 2.58 billion dlrs were up 19 pct compared with February last year, but imports were 46 pct higher than last February, totalling 3.16 billion dlrs. Non-oil imports totalled 2.79 billion dlrs compared with 1.91 billion in February last year, reflecting the large ammount of investment goods entering the country with the recovery of the Spanish economy, the Bank of Spain said. Spain's tourism earnings continued to grow and totalled 655 mln dlrs in February, compared with 103 mln dlrs in January and 502 mln dlrs in February last year.  
label 24	BELGIAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN 1986 Belgium's current account surplus, measured on a cash basis, widened sharply to 134.9 billion francs last year from 17.5 billion in 1985, the Finance Ministry said. The increase was due almost entirely to a sharp rise in the goods trade surplus to 126.1 billion francs from 20.4 billion. The services trade surpluses increased to 52.4 billion francs from 38.9 billion while the deficit on transfers rose slightly to 43.6 billion from 41.8 billion. Private sector capital operations showed a steeply higher deficit of 160.7 billion francs after 56.9 billion in 1985.  
label 24	SOUTH KOREA TO CHANGE POLICIES TO AVERT TRADE WAR South Korea has decided on major changes in its trade, investment and finance policies aimed at reducing the growth of its balance of payments surplus and avoiding a trade war with the United States, Deputy Prime Minister Kim Mahn-je said. Kim told reporters the excessively fast rise in exports could make South Korea too reliant on exports, increase nflation and produce trade friction. The policy shift, which means abandoning Seoul's goal of rapidly reducing its foreign debt, was worked out at a series of ministerial meetings. Kim, who is also Economic Planning Minister, said the current account surplus, previously expected to exceed eight billion dlrs this year, would be held at about five billion dlrs by increasing imports, accelerating market liberalisation and rationalising exports. He said Seoul would try to limit its current account surplus to around five billion dlrs a year for the next few years, although trade volume would continue to grow. "This will gradually reduce the ratio of the surplus to GNP (gross national product) from the current five pct level to three pct by 1991," he added. Koo Bon-yong, an aide to Kim, said South Korea's foreign debt had been expected to fall below 40 billion dlrs by the end of 1987, against the initial forecast of 41.8 billion, and 44.5 billion dlrs at end-1986. "But now (with the policy changes) the debt is expected to remain above 40 billion dlrs, although it could still be lower than the originally projected 41.8 billion dlrs," he said. The policy change was announced two days before the scheduled arrival of U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige for talks with Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae. South Korea is under U.S. Pressure to reduce its bilateral trade surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dlrs last year from 4.3 billion dlrs in 1985. Kim said the policy changes were also prompted by the swing in South Korea's current account to a surplus of 2.06 billion dlrs in the first quarter of 1987 from a deficit of 438 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period. First quarter 1987 exports rose 36 pct to 9.4 billion dlrs. The government would make foreign currency loans worth 2.5 billion dlrs to firms willing to import capital goods, raw materials and equipment, preferably from the U.S., He said. "The foreign currency-based loans, which carry interest at 1.5 points above LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), are considerable incentives given to increase imports," Koo said. Koo said the loans would be repayable in foreign currency. "It means they could become interest-free loans if the Korean currency continues to rise in value," he said. He said the South Korean won would be revalued against the dollar gradually, but added "We do not believe in rapid one-shot changes in the value of the won." The won, fixed at 839.70 to the dollar today, has risen six pct against the dollar since the beginning of 1986.  
label 24	FINLAND'S CURRENT ACCOUNT IN DEFICIT IN 1ST QTR Finland's current account balance of payments showed a deficit of 2.5 billion markka in first quarter 1987 against a deficit of 3.2 billion in the same period last year, the Bank of Finland said in a statement.  
label 25	GLOBAL ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN RAISES NEW DEBT FEARS The global economy is expected to weaken this year, adding new worries to an already serious poverty outlook, economic analysts said. For finance ministers and central bankers attending this week's semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, the new figures released by the IMF add an additional concern. The Fund estimated world output would only grow by 2.7 pct this year, versus 2.9 pct last year, and 3.1 pct in 1985. In the industrial countries, Gross National Product, a measure of all goods and services, was expected to decline to 2.3 pct this year, compared with 2.4 pct in 1986, the IMF said. For the developing countries, the Gross Domestic Product, another measure of economic growth, was expected to fall to 3.0 pct from 3.5 pct last year. The new figures are considered a major disappointment to the poorest countries. They had hoped that new vitality in the industrial countries brought on by a sharp decline in oil prices would assist their economic recovery and help them cope with growing mounds of debt. IMF officials, discussing their outlook, said they believed the industrial country economies would move up to an annual growth rate of three pct by the end of the decade. Economic analysts and the IMF have been saying for some time that the ability to keep the debt crisis from turning into an economic rout rests on sustained economic growth. Since the debtor countries must look to the wealthier states for markets for their products as well as financial assistance, economic weakness in the developed nations' economies poses fundamental worries. Debtor countries, including the very poorest states, have only a few avenues open to them for earning foreign exchange, including the key one of exports. The U.S. economy, which is in its fifth year of expansion, has served as a mainstay for developing country exports, but it too is seen as being rather feeble this year, growing by only 2.3 pct, according to the IMF. For this reason and because of a high trade deficit, the United States has been pressuring Japan and West Germany to ignite their economies but with little apparent success. The IMF study also examines the course of the dollar and the curious lack of impact it has had on the U.S. trade deficit. Reagan administration officials have been saying that the impact is now beginning to show up, although it has been much slower than expected. The IMF observed in its World Economic Outlook that "it has to be recognized that exchange rate adjustments take time to work through to payments flows -- probably at least three years to get a resonably complete effect." The report added, however, "the adjustments may take even more time on this occasion." REUTER^M  
label 25	WEST GERMAN INSTITUTES CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS The five leading West German economic research institutes said the government should do more to stimulate economic growth and called for early introduction of tax cuts planned for 1990. In their joint spring report the institutes were divided about 1987 growth forecasts, with three predicting two pct expansion and the other two only one pct growth. Gross national product grew 2.4 pct last year. But the report said all the institutes believed that "more must be done to produce dynamic growth so that more additional jobs can be created." The institutes said any step which improved basic economic conditions should be taken as quickly as possible. "From this point of view, the tax reform planned for 1990 should be brought forward." The government plans gross tax reductions of 44 billion marks as part of the major tax reform. The net tax relief from the tax reform will amount to 25 billion marks. However, the institutes criticised the government, not only for the timing of the reform, but also because the question of its financing had been left open. The government has not specified how the remaining 19 billion marks of the tax reduction package will be paid for, though it has said it wants to cut state subsidies. The institutes said this lack of clarity from Bonn had caused uncertainty among companies and households as to what exactly they would receive from the tax reform and urged a quick decision from the government. They also said the government should reduce tax preferences, which would simplify the fiscal system, urged a restriction of state spending and called for no increase in value-added tax. The institutes also criticised Bonn for increasing subsidies at a time further reductions had been pledged. They referred specifically to a doubling of special writedowns for small and medium sized companies announced in a package of tax adjustments planned for 1988 and described this as an increase in subsidies. The institutes said total subsidies, including tax preferences, had reached 80 billion marks in 1985 and risen further since then. Given the scope of these subsidies, it should be possible "despite ... Major political difficulties" to finance the tax reform by cutting state handouts. The institutes said that if the government raised value added tax or other indirect taxes a large portion of the positive effects resulting from lower taxes would be lost. The report also noted that the government was progressing only slowly with its plans to privatise state companies and said more deregulation was needed. The government had to aim for more competition, it said.  
label 25	BANGEMANN REJECTS CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS West German Economics Minister Martin Bangemann indirectly rejected a call from the country's leading economic research institutes for early introduction of a major tax reform involving gross tax cuts of 44 billion marks. In a statement reacting to the five institutes' joint spring report, Bangemann said that as far as the call for bringing forward the 1990 tax reform was concerned -- "The government points out that the positive effects for growth of its policy of consolidation (cutting the budget deficit) must not be allowed to be endangered." Bangemann also recalled that the scope of tax cuts planned for 1988 had already been increased. Three institutes predicted two pct economic growth in 1987, with exports falling by 0.5 pct. The other two saw only one pct growth and said exports would fall 2.5 pct. Bangemann said "The government, agreeing with the majority, sees no reason for the extraordinarily pessimistic estimate for exports expressed by the minority." He said there was reason to believe that export demand would start to rise in the course of the year, partly because of a further increase in world trade.  
label 25	ITALIAN GDP ROSE 2.4 PCT IN 1986 FOURTH QUARTER Italy's Gross Domestic Product, calculated at 1980 prices, rose 2.4 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, compared with the same period in 1985, National Statistics Institute ISTAT said. ISTAT said in a statement that GDP growth in fourth quarter 1986 was zero compared with the preceding quarter. Italy's budget ministry said last month that 1986 GDP rose 2.7 pct in real terms from 1985. Imports in the fourth quarter totalled 26,361 billion lire, down 1.4 pct from the 1985 fourth quarter and down 6.6 pct from the third 1986 quarter, ISTAT said. Istat said exports totaled 23,190 billion lire in the fourth quarter, down 4.1 pct from the comparable 1985 quarter and down 6.7 pct from the third quarter in 1986. Fixed investments were 23,438 billion lire in the fourth quarter, down 0.7 pct from the preceding quarter and up 1.1 pct from the comparable 1985 quarter.  
label 25	INSTITUTES SEE NO WEST GERMAN RECESSION The five leading West German economic research institutes, which have revised down their forecasts for 1987 growth, do not predict a recession in West Germany, their spokesman, Hans-Juergen Schmahl said. The institutes were divided in their spring report on forecasts for 1987, with three predicting two pct growth and two seeing only one pct expansion. Growth was 2.4 pct in 1986. Schmahl, presenting the report at a news conference, said, "None of the institutes reckons with a recession or with the beginning of a recession." He added, however, that exports remained the weak point of the economy . Schmahl also said West Germany would have to expect further encroachments of foreign goods onto its markets. Arthur Krumper of Munich's Ifo institute, which with the DIW of West Berlin had presented the more pessimistic view of the economy, said, "The braking effects (on the economy) produced by external factors will remain considerable for most of the year."  
label 26	CANAM MANAC WINS 8.5 MLN DLR CONTRACT (The Canam Manac Group Inc) said its Canam Steel Works unit received a contract valued at 8.5 mln dlrs to supply steel trusses to (Canron Inc) for a new car plant in Ingersoll, Ontario. Canam Manac said it will produce the trusses at its Quebec and Ontario plants and delivery will be completed by August.  
label 26	TALKING POINT/STEEL COMPANIES Steel stocks, which have had a healthy runup recently, still present some short term investment opportunities, according to some steel analysts. But others say the upturn, based on strong orders and firm prices this spring, has been strictly seasonal and will end soon. They recommend taking profits. "It's that time of year. This is strictly seasonal," said Charles Bradford of Merrill Lynch and Co. "Orders will be strong for about two months, and there are signs that some (order rates) are starting to dive already." But Dean Witter Reynolds Inc analyst Clarence Morrison sees some short-term potential in the group, which includes USX Corp &lt;X>, Bethlehem Steel Corp &lt;BS>, Armco Inc &lt;AS> and Inland Steel Industries Inc &lt;IAD>. "There is still some attractiveness to steels over the short- to intermediate-term based on improved order rates and rising prices," Morrison said. He only recommends one stock, however, Inland, which is modernizing steelmaking operations to make them more efficient. Despite his bearishness, Merrill's Bradford continues to recommend Armco, which he sees as a major turnaround. Armco's steelmaking operations are profitable, the balance sheet has been improved, and its oilfield equipment business has been slimmed and put in a joint venture with USX, Bradford noted. "It's not a high-quality investment situation yet but they've come a long way," he said. "We think the stock will do moderately better than the market," he said. Armco shares, trading off 1/4 at 10 today, could go to 12, and possibly as high as 15, he said. Bradford sees Armco earning 50 to 75 cts a share in 1987, before special gains from recouped investment tax credits, against losses last year. Armco's 1988 earnings could be significantly higher, he said. Bradford is recommending sale of USX shares. "We had a buy on it below 20 but when it gets to 28, let somebody else have it," he said. The steel and energy concern will earn about one dlr a share in 1987, about half of that coming from asset sales, and from two dlrs to 2.50 dlrs in 1988, Bradford said. "But a lot depends on oil prices," he added. About 60 pct of USX's sales come from oil and natural gas. Other analysts, including Michelle Galanter Applebaum of Salomon Brothers Inc, recommend USX. "The company's done a lot (of restructuring), more than the market's given them credit for," she said. She sees the stock going to the mid 30s or higher. USX was trading up 1/8 at 28-1/2. She predicts USX will earn 18 cts a share this year and 2.73 dlrs next year against large losses in 1986. Applebaum, who is also positive on Armco and Inland, has been recommending the stocks since last November. Peter Marcus of Painewebber Inc is neutral on the group although he said the earnings outlook is improved through the third quarter. But he sees potential trouble beyond then. "I think (steel) prices on a bookings basis will start to drop by the summer," he said. Applebaum of Salomon Brothers also sees some seasonal dropoff later in the year. "But there are more positives than negatives," she said, citing reduced capacity in the domestic industry, better prices, and a weaker dollar, which should cause steel imports to drop off slightly from last year.  
label 26	CHINA SULPHUR-IRON MINE STARTS PRODUCTION China's largest sulphur-iron mine has started trial production at Yunfu in the southern province of Guangdong, the China Daily said. It said the mine has an annual output capacity of three mln tonnes of sulphur-iron ore, which can be used without processing because of its high quality.  
label 26	SLATER &lt;SSI.A.TO> PLANS U.S. MODERNIZATION Slater Industries Inc said it planned a 15 mln dlr modernization of its Slater Steels Corp Fort Wayne specialty bar division in Indiana. It said the modernization would involve replacement of the existing bar mill with a high-speed, quick-change continuous mill. The new facility will lower labor and mill costs and enhance product quality and range, Slater said. Completion date of the new mill was undisclosed.  
label 26	EC MINISTERS CONSIDER CUTBACKS IN STEEL SUPPORT A new steel quota system that would strictly limit European Community (EC) support to the industry could be forced on producers if they fail to find their own solution quickly, officials said. EC industry ministers meeting here considered two key proposals aimed at cutting back surplus capacity by 30 mln tonnes by 1990. The first would limit the current quota system, which has protected EC output for seven years, only to flat products and heavy sections, thereby forcing other types of steel products into free market competition. The second proposal would link continuation of a quota system with progress toward plant closures, although less than a month ago the EC steelmakers' lobby group Eurofer said they had abandoned efforts to close plants voluntarily. The ministers stopped short of imposing their own solution immediately, instead urging steel producers to try again to reach agreement on voluntary cutbacks. The EC Commission has said it will come up with detailed proposals in July on the future of the EC steel industry and EC industry ministers meet again in September to reach a final decision.  
label 27	WEATHER HURTS ITALIAN ORANGES - USDA REPORT Unfavorable weather conditions during the second week of March caused damage to oranges in the Calabria region in southern Italy, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Rome said in a field report. The report, dated April 3, said the region accounts for about 22,000 hectares of the Italian orange crop or about 26 pct of total production. However, orange production in the region for marketing year 1986/87 is forecast at 565,000 tonnes or 25 pct of the total Italian orange crop, it said. The report said trade contacts agree that about 15 pct of the orange output in Calabria was damaged by frost.  
label 27	USDA 1986/87 U.S. ORANGE CROP 190,050,000  BOXES, FLORIDA CROP 122,900,000 BOXES  USDA 1986/87 U.S. ORANGE CROP 190,050,000  BOXES, FLORIDA CROP 122,900,000 BOXES  
label 27	USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 ORANGE JUICE YIELD  AT 1.50 GALS PER BOX FROM FLORIDA CROP  USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 ORANGE JUICE YIELD  AT 1.50 GALS PER BOX FROM FLORIDA CROP  
label 27	U.S. CITRUS CROP ESTIMATE -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department estimated 1986/87 citrus production, as follows (in boxes) -- Total U.S. orange crop (excluding Florida Temples) -- 190,050,000 boxes, vs 190,850,000 boxes last month and 176,410,000 boxes in the 1985/86 crop. Florida oranges (excluding Temples) -- 122,900,000 boxes, vs 124,000,000 last month and 119,000,000 boxes in 1985/86. Florida Temples -- 3,400,000 boxes, vs 3,400,000 last month and 2,950,000 boxes in 1985/86. The department's estimates are based on April 1 crop conditions.  
label 27	USDA ORANGE JUICE YIELD ESTIMATE The U.S. Agriculture Department projected an average yield of 1.50 gallons of frozen concentrated orange juice per box (42.0 degree brix equivalent) from Florida's 1986/87 crop. That compares with 1.47 gallons per box previously and 1.38 gallons per box from the 1985/86 crop. The crop reporting board said the estimates for the 1986/87 season are based on maturity and yields tests as of April 1.  
label 28	U.S. MARCH RETAIL SALES CUT BY LATE EASTER U.S. retailers' lackluster March sales were due to a late Easter, according to analysts who expect a recovery in April. "Sales look soft because of the Easter shift, but underlying business is better than the numbers indicate," said Bear Stearns analyst Monroe Greenstein. Analysts generally average the sales results of March and April to account for the variation of Easter's occurance. This year, Easter is being observed on April 19, which is three weeks later than last year. Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said sales for March rose an unadjusted 2.5 to 3.0 pct, and a seasonally adjusted 5.5 pct to six pct, compared to an adjusted 5.7 pct last year. "The obvious question is whether these numbers indicate that the consumer activity is slowing, but it does not appear to be because liquidity and employment are rising," said analyst Jeff Edelman, analyst of Drexel Lambert and Burnham. Overall, analysts said first half sales are coming in according to expectations. Sales for all of 1987 are expected to rise about 5.5 pct to six pct, up a bit from 1986's rise. In March, sales of housewares, furniture and big ticket items were stronger than apparel sales, signaling to many analysts that apparel sales will be strong in April as the holiday nears. "Sales gains in home appliances and home fashions reflect a continuing strength in the housing market," said Edward Brennan, chairman of Sears Roebuck and Co &lt;S> which reported an overall sales gain of 4.2 pct. Brennan said sales of women's sportswear were also excellent. "Sears' total apparel sales was up only modestly, but even a modest improvement in apparel is a very good accomplishment due to the fact that most people will buy apparel in April," said C.J. Lawrence analysts Harry Mortner. J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;JCP> and Dayton Hudson Corp &lt;DH> were among the weaker performers with comparable stores sales declining 1.5 pct and 4.9 pct, respectively. Penney's store and catalog sales declined 1.3 pct overall and Dayton Hudson's overall sales rose 4.8 pct. Penney chairman William Howell said, "Sales continued strong for catalog operations and, geographically, ranged from very active in the east to weak in the economically depressed southwest." "Penney's been shifting away from leisure time activity wear to other apparel lines, which yield higher profit margins, but are currently hurting sales," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns. Hudson chairman Kenneth Mackes cited the late Easter for the decline. Edelman of Drexel said that "Hudson had a tougher comparison because it had an exceptionally good 1986." Most analysts agreed that promotions are slightly lower than last year. "Retailers are not planning for much - inventories are being kept lean, markdowns are lower than last year, but sales are coming through anyway," said CJ Analyst Harry Mortner. Mortner said he expects profits in the first quarter to be better than he had originally expected in the beginning of the year. Most retailers report their first quarter in the middle of May. MARCH RETAIL SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS STORE       PCT        1987       1986 SEARS       4.2     2.6 BIL       2.5 BIL K MART      4.6     2.2 BIL       2.1 BIL JC PENNEY  (1.3)    1.1 BIL       1.1 BIL WAL-MART     32     1.1 BIL       855 MLN FEDERATED   4.9     934 MLN       891 MLN MAY         3.5     885 MLN       855 MLN DAYTON      4.8     792 MLN       756 MLN WOOLWORTH   0.2     591 MLN       590 MLN ZAYRE      12.7     522 MLN       464 MLN  
label 28	TURKISH RETAIL PRICES RISE 2.7 PCT IN FEBRUARY Turkish retail prices rose 2.7 pct in February after 2.9 pct in January and 1.7 pct in February 1986, the State Statistics Institute said. Prices in the year to February rose 31.6 pct, compared with 30.3 pct in the year to January and 38.8 pct in the 12 months to February 1986. The index (base 1978/79), covering 14 towns and five regions, was 1,886.8 in February, 1,837.2 in January and 1,434.0 in February 1986.  
label 28	FEBRUARY U.S. RETAIL SALES NOT SIGN OF UPTURN U.S. retailers posted stronger than expected sales in February, but not enough to prompt analysts to change their expectations of sluggish sales growth for the first half of 1987. "My feeling is that it (February) borrowed some of the business we normally see later in the quarter and the real strength of general merchandise sales will be in the second half of 1987," said Bear Stearns and Co analyst Monroe Greenstein. "I don't think March will be as strong because Easter falls in April this year," said Morgan Stanley analyst Walter Loeb. Analysts generally average the sales results of March and April to account for the variation of Easter's occurrence. Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said sales for February rose between six and 6.5 pct, compared to a 3.6 pct increase last year. Analysts noted that February is considered a small, transitory month between winter and spring. In addition, sales comparisons were boosted by an especially soft February last year which was adversely affected by severe weather. Apparel sales outshone other product groups in sales, according to retailers and analysts. "February's strong sales reflected a lot of fresh merchandise on the shelves and higher consumer income due to tax reductions," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns. Analysts expect apparel sales to remain good as sales of durable and houseware items grow softer due to the continuing high levels of consumer debt. May Department Stores Co &lt;MAY> and K Mart Corp &lt;KM> were among the strong performers, posting comparable store sales gains of 9.4 pct and 8.2 pct, respectively. May had an overall sales gain of 15.0 pct and K Mart had a 13.1 pct sales gain last month. "Favorable consumer response to our merchandise programs continued to positively impact our sales comparisons. IN addition to the strong contribution by K Mart stores, all our specialty retailing companies had excellent February sales," said K Mart chairman Bernard Fauber. Sears Roebuck and Co &lt;S> posted a 4.9 pct increase. "Domestic sales were led by better than average increases in apparel, home fashions and hardware and especially strong catalog sales," said Sears chairman Edward Brennan. Analysts were a little disappointed by J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;JCP> which started out with especially strong sales early in the month. Penney posted a 5.5 pct increase on a comparitive store basis and a 5.3 pct gain in overall sales. Penney chairman William Howell said, "store sales were strongest during the early part of the month, while catalog demand was consistently strong throughout the period. Store sales activity varied throughout the country, ranging from good in the East to weak in the depressed southwest. Analysts also said gross profit margins were high as retailers were not overly promotional due to leaner inventories than a year ago. "February is not a big month seasonally but these numbers suggest a fairly good trend for consumer spending," said Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst Jeff Edelman. FEBRUARY SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS STORE          PCT      1987       1986 SEARS             4.9      1.8 BILL   1.8 BILL K MART            13.1     1.5 BILL   1.3 BILL WAL-MART          44.0     885 MLN    615 MLN JC PENNEY         5.3      780 MLN    741 MLN FEDERATED         9.6      720 MLN    657 MLN MAY               15.0     632 MLN    550 MLN DAYTON HUDSON     19.5     602 MLN    504 MLN ZAYRE             25.7     327 MLN    260 MLN MONTGOMERY WARD   11.1     277 MLN    249 MLN  
label 28	N.Z. DECEMBER QUARTER RETAIL SALES FALL 13.2 PCT Retail sales in the quarter ended December 31 fell a seasonally adjusted 13.2 pct compared with a 7.8 pct rise in the September quarter and a 1.3 pct fall a year ago period, the Statistics Department said. Actual retail sales in the December quarter totalled 6.17 billion N.Z. Dlrs compared with 6.70 billion in the previous quarter and 6.10 billion a year ago period. The largest decreases in the December quarter were recorded by the same stores which recorded the highest increase in sales in the September 1986 quarter before the introduction of a 10 pct value added goods and services tax on October 1, 1986.  
label 28	U.S. RETAIL SALES ROSE 4.1 PCT IN FEB, NON-AUTO SALES ROSE 1.5 PCT  U.S. RETAIL SALES ROSE 4.1 PCT IN FEB, NON-AUTO SALES ROSE 1.5 PCT  
label 29	U.K. MARCH PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.3 PCT The price index for sales of manufactured goods in the U.K. Rose a provisional, unadjusted 0.3 pct in March after an identical rise in February, Department of Trade and Industry figures show. The index for materials and fuel purchased by manufacturing industry fell a provisional and unadjusted 1.1 pct after a 1.7 pct fall in February. The Department said the year-on-year rise in producer prices in March was a provisional 3.7 pct, compared with a provisional 4.2 pct increase in the year to end-February. The index for output prices, non-seasonally adjusted, was put at a provisional 149.7 in March after 149.3 in February. The index for input prices, also not seasonally adjusted, was set at 128.2 in March after February's 129.6. The 1.1 pct fall in input prices between February and March was mainly due to a seasonal fall in industrial electricity costs and lower scheduled prices for petroleum products, the Department said. The Department said these falls were only partly offset by a rise in prices of home-produced food manufacturing materials. The seasonally adjusted index for input prices showed a 0.2 pct rise between February and March. Year-on-year, the input price index was down 0.7 pct in March after a 2.8 pct drop in February.  
label 29	U.K. PRODUCER PRICES SEEN MOVED BY TECHNICALITIES U.K. Producer price data for March were roughly as expected after taking into account technical factors which affected the year-on-year outcome, economic analysts said. The figures showed a 0.3 pct provisional, non-seasonally adjusted rise in output prices in March, unchanged from February and close to the average for the last six months. The year-on-year rise was put at 3.7 pct, down from 4.2 pct in February. But Chris Tinker, economist at brokerage house Phillips and Drew, said the drop in the year-on-year rate mainly reflected a rise in excise duties which affected the index in March last year. He cautioned that it was dangerous to read too much into the monthly figure, adding that a rise of only 0.2 pct in April would take the year-on-year rise back above 4.2 pct. Analysts also noted that a drop in manufacturers' input prices was almost entirely due to anticipated seasonal factors such as a fall in industrial electricity costs. Duncan Squire of Lloyds Merchant Bank said the figures were slightly disappointing in that the strengthening of sterling had not yet reduced input prices as much as expected. Both he and Tinker said this factor should help keep input costs down over the next few months, although Tinker added that last year's fall in oil prices is now about to drop out of the year-on-year comparisons and is likely to lead to a return to rises in the index rather than falls.  
label 29	GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT IN MARCH West German producer prices fell 0.1 pct in March compared with February to stand 3.9 pct lower than in March last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In February, producer prices fell 0.3 pct from January and dropped 4.2 pct from their levels a year earlier. The Statistics Office said producer prices for natural gas had fallen 3.0 pct in March against February, heavy heating oil prices were 3.2 pct down, liquefied gas prices fell 14 pct and coffee was 7.4 pct cheaper.  
label 29	Japan March wholesale prices rise 0.2 pct (0.1 pct February drop) - official  Japan March wholesale prices rise 0.2 pct (0.1 pct February drop) - official  
label 29	INDIA'S ANNUAL INFLATION RATE DROPS MARGINALLY The Finance Ministry said India's wholesale-price linked inflation rate dropped marginally to 5.3 pct in all fiscal 1986/87 ended March from 5.8 pct in 1985/86 and 7.1 pct in 1984/85. The average wholesale-price related inflation stood at 5.2 pct in March this year against 5.1 pct a year ago, the Ministry said in a statement. It said wholesale prices of cement, textiles and jute fell in 1986/87, compared with the previous year, but milk, cereals (mainly wheat and rice), fruits and vegetables, edible oils, tobacco and fertilisers were costlier in 1986/87.  
label 30	ANDRIESSEN HINTS FATS/OIL TAX COULD GO TO SUMMIT European Community (EC) Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen said his proposal for a tax of up to 330 European Currency Units per tonne on oils and fats was likely to go up for discussion at next week's summit meeting of EC leaders. EC farm ministers have been unable to agree the tax, one of the main items proposed by Andriessen for the 1987-88 farm price package. The tax, which would apply on both domestically-produced and imported oils and fats, has been fiercely opposed by the United States and developing countries' vegetable and marine oil producers.  
label 30	ACP STATES SAY EC OILS TAX PLAN BREAKS ACCORDS Developing countries said the European Community (EC) would breach two international agreements if it went ahead with its plans for an oils and fats tax. Ambassadors to the EC from African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) states told a press conference the tax would hit the exports of 26 ACP countries. They said the EC failed to follow consultation procedures laid down in the Lome Convention which regulates relations between ACP states and the bloc for moves which could affect trade between the two sides. They also said the EC would be in breach of an undertaking not to bring in new protectionist measures during the current Punta del Este round of world trade negotiations being held under GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) auspices. The EC Commission has proposed a tax of up to 330 European currency units (Ecus) a tonne on both imported and EC-produced vegetable and marine fats for human consumption, which could raise up to two billion Ecus a year. EC farm ministers, who would have to approve such a tax, are split on the issue and are expected to decide it at a marathon meeting on EC farm prices beginning in Luxembourg on June 15. Jamaican ambassador Leslie Wilson said ACP countries are convinced this would lead to EC industry substituting products made within the bloc for oil and fat imports. The ACP estimates this would result in a fall of 160 to 185 mln Ecus in its member country exports. "We can't believe the EC would willingly take measures to undermine our countries, but such would be the impact of these measures," Wilson said. The U.S. and Malaysia say their exports would also be hit by the proposed tax and they may take retaliatory action if it is approved. Wilson said the ACP would take such steps only "as a very last resort," but added that the ACP is in touch with other countries which oppose the plan. Wilson, who was chairing the news conference, made it clear Jamaica itself would not be hit by the tax as it does not export oils and fats. Among the worst hit countries would be Ivory Coast, Senegal, Nigeria and Papua New Guinea, the ACP says.  
label 30	DUTCH PARLIAMENT BACKS STAND AGAINST OILS TAX Dutch parliamentary parties have re-affirmed their support for the government's opposition to the proposed European Community tax on oils and fats, parliamentarians said. A broad cross-section of members of parliament voiced their opposition to the tax during a debate in the lower house yesterday on the basis of possible retaliation from the U.S. And on the potentially damaging effect on Third World countries. State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Rene Van Der Linden said the government was against the tax although it noted deepening EC financial difficulties. "It is difficult to be against the tax and against extra finance. The EC members have to make a choice," Van Der Linden said. However, he denied the government had dropped its opposition to the proposed tax or altered its position.  
label 30	RPT - OPPOSITION TO EC OILS TAX INTACT - MINISTER A minority group of European Community countries strong enough to block the adoption of a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats is still intact after the EC Commission proposed changes to its proposals earlier today, British agriculture minister John MacGregor told journalists. He said Britain, West Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark continue to oppose the tax after the Commission proposed making it temporary and promising compensation to any third countries whose exports suffered.  
label 30	DUTCH CONSUMERS/INDUSTRY SEE VEG OILS TAX THREAT Dutch consumers and food processors would be hit hard by the proposed EC tax on oils and fats, Dick de Bruyn, chairman of the commodity board for margarine, fats and oils, MVO, said at the annual meeting. The Dutch are the second largest consumers of margarine and fourth largest consumers of vegetable oils in the EC. The fiercely contested tax would be a levy on consumers and steeply increase the costs of industries such as potato processing and cake and biscuit manufacturing, de Bruyn said. "A move by these industries to countries outside the EC cannot be ruled out," he added. De Bruyn said the tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats would be wide open to fraud, difficult to police, and hugely expensive administratively. He also said the proposed tax contravened not only article three of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the Lome Convention, and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) guidelines, but also the EC's own Treaty. The proposed tax would not only be inflationary but also have consequences for employment and investment, he added.  
