prenatal_development	the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary supplementation with 0.35% l-leucine on redox status and gene abundance relating to mitochondrial biogenesis and function in the jejunum of intrauterine growth-retarded (iugr) piglets during early weaning period. according to a 2x2 factorial arrangement, 16 iugr and 16 normal body weight (nbw) piglets were fed a basal diet without l-leucine supplementation or a basal diet plus 0.35% l-leucine supplementation from the age of 14 to 35d. the results showed that compared with nbw piglets, iugr piglets had a lower (p<0.05) jejunal dna concentration, a reduced (p<0.05) manganese superoxide dismutase (mnsod) and total antioxidant capability (t-aoc) activities and mitochondrial dna content in the jejunum. leucine supplementation increased (p<0.05) mnsod and t-aoc activities and decreased (p<0.05) the malondialdehyde content in the jejunum of iugr piglets. the mrna gene abundance of nuclear respiratory factor-1 (nrf1), mitochondrial transcription factor a (tfam), atp synthase (atps), cytochrome c oxidase v (ccox v), cytochrome c and glucokinase in the jejunum of iugr piglets was reduced (p<0.05) compared with nbw piglets. however, nrf1, peroxisome proliferation-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha, tfam, atps and ccox i mrna gene abundance in the jejunum of iugr piglets were increased (p<0.05) by diets supplemented with leucine. these data indicate that leucine supplementation has therapeutic potential for attenuating intestinal oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in iugr piglets during the early period of life via increasing enzyme activities and up-regulating mrna gene abundance.
prenatal_development	the increasing functional integrity of the organism during fetal maturation is connected with increasing complex internal coordination. we hypothesize that time scales of complexity and dynamics of heart rate patterns reflect the increasing inter-dependencies within the fetal organism during its prenatal development. we investigated multi-scale complexity, time irreversibility and fractal scaling from 73 fetal magnetocardiographic 30 min recordings over the third trimester. we found different scale dependent complexity changes, increasing medium scale time irreversibility, and increasing long scale fractal correlations (all changes p < 0.05). the results confirm the importance of time scales to be considered in fetal heart rate based developmental indices. (c) 2011 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
prenatal_development	less information is available about site-dependent differences in fetal intrabrain angiogenesis. quantitative evaluation is especially limited, with the measured area limited to the cerebral gray and white matters and the periventricular germinal matrix. we measured vascular density (number of vessels per square millimeter) and percent vascular area (percentage of areas occupied by vessels) of cd34-positive microvessels in 14 human fetal brains, including 4 fetuses at 14-16 weeks of gestation, 5 at 25-28 weeks, and 5 at 35-37 weeks. site-dependent differences were examined among the cerebral cortex, thalamus, internal capsule, corpus callosum, ganglionic eminence, midbrain, and cerebellar cortex and nuclei. the parameters examined tended to be high in the cerebral germinal matrix, thalamus, midbrain, and cerebellum. significant site-dependent differences were observed: lower vascular densities were observed in the internal capsule and corpus callosum than in other parts of the brain (p < 0.05) and a larger percent area was observed in the cerebellar nuclei than in other areas. vascular density was higher during the early than late stage because of the larger numbers of cd34-positive islands of cells in the early stage, although there were several exceptions. percent area was not stage dependent but was almost constant at many sites. consequently, except for developing nuclei, the prenatal development of intrabrain vessels after 15 weeks may proceed without any significant changes in density.
prenatal_development	during palatine rugae development in mice, a cell cluster appeared transiently in the palatine rugae epithelium. the characteristics of these cells were examined histologically and immunohistochemically for anti-cytokeratin (ck) and anti-protein gene product 9.5 (pgp9.5) antibodies using mice from embryonic day 15 (e15) to postnatal day 1 (pn1). at e15, the epithelium of both palatine rugae located in the anterior portion and inter-rugae area consisted of 2-3 cell layers, and palatine rugae have papillae under the epithelium. however, palatine rugae located in the posterior portion have cell clusters in the epithelium. these cells expressed immunopositive reactions for anti-ck18, although they did not react with anti-ck14. under the anti-ck18 immunopositive cell cluster in palatine rugae epithelium, anti-pgp9.5 immunoreactivity was observed in papillae. moreover, the basal cells of the cell cluster showed anti-ck7 immunoreactivity. the cell cluster in palatine rugae epithelium disappeared gradually and anti-ck18 immunopositive cells also disappeared. however, anti-pgp9.5 immunoreactivity in the papilla was maintained after the disappearance of anti-ck18 immunoactivity in the palatine rugae epithelium. at pn1, the epithelium of the palate, including the palatine rugae, was stratified and keratinized. these findings suggested that the cell cluster in the palatine rugae epithelium may be considered as a taste bud-like structure according to the expression pattern for anti-ck and may play an important role in nerve innervation to the papilla under the palatine rugae epithelium.
prenatal_development	objective: this article illustrates early human development, demonstrated by magnetic resonance (mr) microscopy and computer graphics on human embryo specimens, and advanced 3-dimensional (3d) sonography in clinical obstetrics. study design: fixed human embryo specimens were imaged by mr microscopy coupled with computer graphics technology. transvaginal 3d sonography was used to examine embryos in ongoing gestations and compare embryological findings. results: advances in mr microscopy allowed detailed visualization of embryo specimens. computational techniques allowed reconstruction of tomographic images to render them as 3d structures. high-resolution transvaginal 3d sonography produced images that demonstrated the neural tube from week 6; brain anatomy and vasculature from week 8; and craniofacial morphology and other structures from week 11. conclusion: mr microscopy is a novel technique that enables nondestructive, high-resolution imaging of embryo specimens. on the other hand, 3d sonoembryology allows detailed anatomical visualization in vivo and is the basis for the assessment of anomalies as well as human development.
attention	we demonstrate that the notion of a family 'constitution' (self-enforcing, renegotiation-proof norm) requiring adults to provide attention for their elderly parents carries over from a world where identical individuals reproduce asexually, to one where individuals differentiated by sex and preferences marry, have children and bargain over the allocation of domestic resources. in this heterogenous world, couples are sorted by their preferences. if a couple 's common preferences satisfy a certain condition, the couple have an interest in instilling those preferences into their children. policies are generally nonneutral. in particular, wage redistribution may raise, and compulsory education will reduce, the share of the adult population that is governed by family constitutions, and thus the share of the elderly population who receive attention from their children.
attention	roofers have long suffered from low back disorders (lbds), which are a primary nonfatal injury in construction. ergonomic studies have identified several risk factors associated with lbds in workplaces and developed biomechanical models for general lbd risk assessments. however, these models cannot be directly used for assessments in roof workplaces because they are designed for general tasks without considering roofers' posture variance and effects of working on slanted roof surfaces. this paper examined the relationship between roofing work-related factors and lbd risk among roofers using a laboratory assessment. a pitch-configurable wood platform was built to mimic the rooftop. the maximum trunk flexion angle and normalized electromyography (emg) signals were measured as indicators using a motion capture system and a skeletal muscle signal recording system under different settings, i.e., different roof slopes, postures, facing directions, and working paces. the results indicated the measured factors with significant effects on the lbd development and revealed unfavorable conditions (e.g., using a stooped posture to work on low-pitch rooftops at a fast pace) where the work on rooftops needs particular attention. such information is useful for systematic understanding of roofing nonfatal lbd developments among construction professionals and may enable development of interventions and guidelines for reducing the prevalence of lbds at roofing jobsites. (c) 2017 american society of civil engineers.
attention	in the biorefinery context, thermochemical processes have attracted a significant attention in recent years. such processes generally consist of three main steps: pretreatment, thermochemical treatment, and post-treatment. in these developing processes, drying and feeding of biomass feedstock remain a significant and costly challenge. the moisture content of biomass feedstock must be decreased to an economic level at pretreatment step otherwise it has to have a detrimental effect on the process efficiency and quality of products. this work addresses the drying of biomass feedstock using novel but practical technology, called biodrying. it is a green technology that offers an opportunity for biomass drying without using an external heat source or fossil fuels, since drying energy is generated through exothermic microbial activity in the biomass that enhances the drying rate. this paper focuses on technoeconomic assessment of continuous biodrying technology integrated to gasification-based biorefinery and investigates the conditions that make such novel technology viable in conjunction with gasification process. fixed capital investment and operating cost of different biodrying scenarios were estimated as m$4.3-21 and m$0.85/y-3.6/y, respectively, and potential benefits (sludge landfilling cost, energy savings, and carbon credit) from integration of the continuous biodrying system in gasification process implemented in pulp and paper mill were calculated, and ultimately economic performances of the scenarios were assessed. furthermore, the viable biodrying conditions were specified as 4-day residence time and the major viability risk was found to be bound moisture of biomass.
attention	recent years, installation of photovoltaic (pv) system is active by the environmental problem and feed in tariff system. due to pv 's output fluctuation, the static var compensator (svc) made by power electronics technology is planning to install in distribution system. the svc is expected for maintain the voltage. but svc differs in a theory of operation of the existing voltage controller load ratio control transformer (lrt) and step voltage regulator (svr). because the svc operation makes the system impedance changes, the existing voltage controller may not operate effectively. in this study, the intelligent-control method which used the radial basis function (rbf) network is proposed. this method can reduce the effects of the svc operation by including the performance characteristics of svc in the conventional method. an advantage of unnecessary arrangement attention of the svc setup node and easy cooperation with the existing equipment is obtained by applying this method.
attention	environmental managers in the united states and elsewhere are increasingly perceiving dam removal as a critical tool for river restoration and enhancing watershed resilience. in new england, over 125 dams have been dismantled for ecological and economic rationales. a surprising number of these removals, including many that are ongoing, have generated heated conflicts between restoration proponents and local communities who value their dammed landscapes. using a comparative case study approach, we examine the environmental conflict around efforts to remove six dams in new england. each of these removal efforts followed quite different paths and resultant outcomes: successful removal, stalled removal, and failure despite seemingly favorable institutional conditions. lengthy conflicts often transpired in instances where removals occurred, but these were successfully arbitrated by paying attention to local historical-geographical conditions conducive to removal and by brokering effective compromises between dam owners and the various local actors and stakeholders involved in the removal process. yet our results across all cases suggest that these are necessary, but not sufficient conditions for restoration through dam removal since a similar set of conditions typified cases where removals are continuously stalled or completely halted. scholars examining the intersection between ecological restoration and environmental politics should remain vigilant in seeking patterns and generalities across cases of environmental conflict in order to promote important biophysical goals, but must also remain open to the ways in which those goals are thwarted and shaped by conflicts that are deeply contingent on historical-geographical conditions and broader institutional networks of power and influence.
eating_disorders	anorexia nervosa (an) is an eating disorder, mainly affecting women, with a lifetime prevalence of about 1%, that can run a chronic course. while an effective pharmacotherapy is lacking, it is hypothesized that the progesterone and type ii glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone (ru486) might be useful, as it is well known that the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis (hpa) is activated in an. even if secondary to the eating disorder, an active hpa axis may contribute to maintaining the neuroendocrine, emotional and behavioral effects observed in an. more specifically, it is suggested that the hpa axis interacts with limbic structures, including the insular and prefrontal cortices, to uphold the changes in interoceptive and emotional awareness seen in an. as such, it is proposed that mifepristone (ru486) reverses these effects by acting on these limbic regions. in conclusion, the theoretical efficacy of mifepristone (ru486) in improving symptoms of an should be tested in randomized clinical trials. (c) 2016 elsevier inc all rights reserved.
eating_disorders	billions of birds migrate long distances to either reach breeding areas or to spend the winter at more benign places. on migration, most passerines frequently stop over to rest and replenish their fuel reserves. to date, we know little regarding how they decide that they are ready to continue their journey. what physiological signals tell a bird 's brain that its fuel reserves are sufficient to resume migration? a network of hormones regulates food intake and body mass in vertebrates, including the recently discovered peptide hormone, ghrelin. here, we show that ghrelin reflects body condition and influences migratory behavior of wild birds. we measured ghrelin levels of wild garden warblers (sylvia borin) captured at a stopover site. further, we manipulated blood concentrations of ghrelin to test its effects on food intake and migratory restlessness. we found that acylated ghrelin concentrations of garden warblers with larger fat scores were higher than those of birds without fat stores. further, injections of unacylated ghrelin decreased food intake and increased migratory restlessness. these results represent experimental evidence that appetite-regulating hormones control migratory behavior. our study lays a milestone in migration physiology because it provides the missing link between ecologically dependent factors such as condition and timing of migration. in addition, it offers insights in the regulation of the hormonal system controlling food intake and energy stores in vertebrates, whose disruption causes eating disorders and obesity.
eating_disorders	polycystic ovary syndrome (pcos), the most common endocrine condition in women, is often anecdotally associated with binge eating behaviours and food cravings; however there is a paucity of research. this study aimed to report the prevalence of binge eating and food cravings and their relation to obesity risk in women with pcos. participants completed an online survey including the bulimia investigatory test, edinburgh, food cravings-trait questionnaire and the three factor eating questionnaire revised-18. the study included obese (n = 340), overweight (n = 70) and lean (n = 45) women with pcos and lean healthy women (n = 40). sixty percent of obese women with pcos were categorised with binge-eating behaviour, with 39% presenting with clinically significant behaviour. obese women with pcos presented with high mean food cravings-trait scores (131.6 +/- 28.9) that were significantly greater compared with lean (114.0 +/- 34.9) and overweight women with pcos (120.1 +/- 29.5; p < 0.001). multiple regression exploring relations between eating styles and adiposity explained 57% of the variance in binge eating symptom scores in women with pcos (f = 130.4; p < 0.001, n = 463): significant predictors were food cravings total score (beta = 0.53; p < 0.001), emotional eating score (beta = 0.18; p < 0.001), body mass index (beta = 0.11; p < 0.001) and uncontrolled eating score (beta = 0.009; p = 0.02). compared with lean healthy women, lean women with pcos exhibited significantly higher binge eating symptom scores (10.9 +/- 7.8 versus 7.4 +/- 6.0; p < 0.05), though similar total food craving scores (114.0 +/- 34.9 versus 105.6 +/- 26.6: ns). this study is the largest, to date, to robustly report that a high proportion of women with pcos exhibit binge eating behaviours. we recommend screening women with pcos for binge eating behaviours to help inform the choice of weight management approach for this clinical population. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
eating_disorders	eating disorders hold a unique place among mental health disorders, in that salient symptoms can be objectively observed and measured rather than determined only from patient interviews or subjective evaluations. because of this measurement advantage alone, evidence-based medicine would be expected there to make the most rapid strides. however, conclusions in eating disorders research, as in all medical research literature, often continue to be misleading or ambiguous. one major and long-known source of such problems is the misuse and misinterpretation of "" statistical significance"", with "" p values"" strewn throughout research papers like so much confetti, a problem that has become systemic, that is, enforced, rather than corrected, by the peer-review system. this discussion attempts to clarify the issues, and to suggest how readers might deal with this issue in processing the research literature.
eating_disorders	background: compulsive exercise (ce) has been proposed as significant in the etiology, development and maintenance of eating disorders (eds), resulting in more severe and enduring pathology. however, few studies have investigated ce longitudinally in adolescents with eds. we aimed to test if adolescents show the same associations between ce and other clinical variables as previous research has found in adults. methods: three thousand one hundred sixteen girls and 139 boys from a clinical ed database were investigated regarding prevalence and frequency of ce and its relation to psychiatric symptoms, associated features and outcome. denial of illness is common among adolescents and was therefore adjusted for. results: adjusted ce prevalence in girls was 44%, and ce was most prevalent in bulimia nervosa. as previously found in adults, those with ce scored significantly higher than non-ce on total ed severity, level of restriction and negative perfectionism. however, there were only minor differences between ce and non-ce patients on emotional distress, hyperactivity, suicidality and self-esteem. among boys, adjusted ce prevalence was 38%, and ce boys scored significantly higher than non-ce on total ed severity. initial ce did not influence 1-year outcome, although cessation of ce was associated with remission. conclusions: ce is a common clinical feature in adolescents with eds and cessation is associated with remission. when controlling for denial of illness, ce had less detrimental impact than predicted. we recommend controlling for denial in studies on ed adolescents and further exploration of classification and treatment implications of ce.
borderline_personality_disorder	affective instability, conceptualized as fluctuations in mood over time, has been related to ill-health and psychopathology. in this study, we examined the role of affective instability on daily pain outcomes in 70 patients with chronic pain (m-age = 49.7 years; 46 females) using an end-of-day diary. during a baseline phase, patients completed self-reported questionnaires of pain severity, pain duration, disability, depression, and anxiety. during a subsequent diary phase, patients filled out an electronic end-of-day diary over 14 consecutive days assessing daily levels of pain severity, disability, cognitive complaints, negative affect (na) and positive affect. affective instability was operationalized as the mean square of successive differences in daily mood (separately for na and positive affect), which takes into account the size of affective changes over consecutive days. results indicated that na instability was positively associated with daily disability, beyond the effects of daily pain severity. furthermore, na instability moderated the relationship between daily pain severity and daily disability and the relationship between daily pain severity and daily cognitive complaints. positive affect instability, however, showed to be unrelated to all outcomes. current findings extend previous results and reveal the putative role of affective instability on pain-related outcomes and may yield important clinical implications. indeed, they suggest that targeting na instability by improving emotion regulation skills may be a strategy to diminish disability and cognitive complaints in patients with chronic pain.
borderline_personality_disorder	suicidal behavior among u.s. military personnel persists as a significant public health issue. previous research indicates the primary motive for suicide attempts among military personnel is the desire to reduce or alleviate emotional distress, a finding that converges with studies in nonmilitary samples. much less is understood about the consequences of a first suicide attempt that could influence the occurrence of additional suicide attempts. in order to identify these contingencies, 134 active duty soldiers who had attempted suicide (n=69 first-time attempters, n=65 multiple attempters) participated in structured interviews focused on their experiences immediately following their first attempt. soldiers were more likely to have made multiple suicide attempts if they were younger at the time of their first attempt, were not admitted to a hospital or treatment program after their first attempt, or experienced emotional and psychological relief immediately afterwards. results suggest that soldiers who experience emotional and/or psychological relief immediately after their first suicide attempt or do not receive treatment are more likely to make additional suicide attempts. (c) 2016 elsevier ireland ltd. all rights reserved.
borderline_personality_disorder	background: psychiatric illness is common among young adults, but there are only a few studies examining their views about the care they receive. there is a paradigm shift towards person-centred care and, therefore, a need for patients' perspectives in the development of clinical guidelines. aim: the aim of this study was to examine the views about provided psychiatric care in a group of young adult psychiatric patients.method: this study was part of a larger study. patients between the ages of 19-29 years old (n=127) diagnosed with bipolar disorder, borderline personality disorder, and/or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder were interviewed. participants answered open-ended questions concerning their views about provided psychiatric care in six different areas.result: the results were categorized into six themes: (1) wish for better diagnostic assessments, (2) dissatisfaction with treatment, (3) inadequate information, (4) lack of professional attitude, (5) feeling abandoned, and (6) satisfaction with care.conclusion: young psychiatric patients expressed a need for improvement of services that, if implemented, could make psychiatric care more person-centred.
borderline_personality_disorder	introduction: borderline personality disorder (bpd) is a common and severe mental illness. early detection is important and reliable screening instruments are required. to date, however, there has been no evidence of any specific bpd screening tool validated for the spanish-speaking population. the mclean screening instrument for borderline personality disorder (msi-bpd) is a 10-item self-report questionnaire that can detect the presence of bpd in a reliable and quick manner. the aim of the present study is the validation of the msi-bpd for its use in the spanish-speaking population. method: psychometric properties of the msi-bpd spanish version were examined in a sample of 344 participants (170 outpatients with the possible diagnosis of bpd and 174 healthy controls). results: exploratory factor analysis revealed the existence of a bi-factorial structure. the scale showed a high internal consistency (kr-20 = 0.873) and an optimal test-retest reliability (icc = 0.87). using logistic regression analyses and taking the dib-r as reference, a best cut-off of 7 was determined, obtaining a good sensitivity (0.71) and specificity (0.68). the area under the curve, was 0.742 (95% ci 0.660-0.824). the discriminant analysis showed a classification ability of 72.8%. conclusions: the spanish version of the msi-bpd has good psychometric properties as a measure for the screening of bpd. its ease and quickness of use make it valuable to detect the presence of bpd in clinical and research settings. (c) 2016 sep y sepb. published by elsevier espana, s.l.u. all rights reserved.
borderline_personality_disorder	objectives: reduced dentate gyrus volume and increased oxidative stress have emerged as potential pathophysiological mechanisms in bipolar disorder. however, the relationship between dentate gyrus volume and peripheral oxidative stress markers remains unknown. here, we examined dentate gyrus-cornu ammonis (ca) 4 volume longitudinally in patients with bipolar ii disorder (bd-ii) and healthy controls and investigated whether bd-ii is associated with elevated peripheral levels of oxidative stress. methods: we acquired high-resolution structural 3t-magnetic resonance imaging (mri) images and quantified hippocampal subfield volumes using an automated segmentation algorithm in individuals with bd-ii (n=29) and controls (n=33). the participants were scanned twice, at study inclusion and on average 2.4 years later. in addition, we measured peripheral levels of two lipid peroxidation markers (4-hydroxy-2-nonenal [4-hne] and lipid hydroperoxides [lph]). results: first, we demonstrated that the automated hippocampal subfield segmentation technique employed in this work reliably measured dentate gyrus-ca4 volume. second, we found a decreased left dentate gyrus-ca4 volume in patients and that a larger number of depressive episodes between t1 and t2 predicted greater volume decline. finally, we showed that 4-hne was elevated in bd-ii and that 4-hne was negatively associated with left and right dentate gyrus-ca4 volumes in patients. conclusions: these results are consistent with a role for the dentate gyrus in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder and suggest that depressive episodes and elevated oxidative stress might contribute to hippocampal volume decreases. in addition, these findings provide further support for the hypothesis that peripheral lipid peroxidation markers may reflect brain alterations in bipolar disorders.
prosocial_behavior	in germany, high prevalence rates for problematic alcohol use and problematic internet use in adolescents were reported. the objective of the present study was to identify psychopathological factors associated with these two behavior patterns. to our knowledge, this is the first investigation assessing psychopathological factors for both problematic alcohol and problematic internet use in the same sample of adolescents. we surveyed a sample of 1444 adolescents in germany regarding problematic alcohol use, problematic internet use, psychopathology and psychological well-being. we conducted binary logistic regression analyses. 5.6% of the sample showed problematic alcohol use, 4.8% problematic internet use, and 0.8% both problematic alcohol and problematic internet use. problematic alcohol use was higher in adolescents with problematic internet use compared to those without problematic internet use. conduct problems and depressive symptoms were statistically significant associated with both problematic alcohol and problematic internet use. prosocial behavior was related to problematic internet use. male gender and less peer problems were associated with problematic alcohol use. for the first time associations between adolescent problematic alcohol and problematic internet use due to common psychopathological factors were identified. however, in addition to shared factors, we found also specific psychopathological correlates associated with these two behavior patterns. (c) 2016 elsevier ireland ltd. all rights reserved.
prosocial_behavior	this paper explores the effect of video game content, context and experience on cooperative behavior over three research studies. study 1 is a cross-sectional correlation study exploring the relationship between the video game team-play frequency and pro-social behavior, study 2 is a 2 (game content: violent video game and neutral video game) x 2 (game context: single-play and team-play) design with the dependent variable being cooperative behavior and study 3 is a single factor design experiment which examines the effect of the gaming experience on cooperative behavior under a collaborative context. the main findings were that the team-play frequency had a positive correlation with pro-social behavior, and pro-social video game exposure significantly predicted pro-social behavior. collaborative play was found to significantly increase cooperation in both violent and neutral video games. however, the level of gaming experience tended to moderate the relationship between collaborative play and the level of cooperation. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
prosocial_behavior	currently teachers play an increasingly important role as informants in the context of psychological diagnostic processes. it is still uncertain how far rater agreement between students and their teachers as well as agreement between different self-report scales can be affected by specific characteristics of the students as age and gender. in a sample of n = 189 students (mean age = 13,69; sd = 2,26; age span: 9 to 18 years), it was tested if these characteristics have impact on the amount of agreement between teachers' and students' ratings concerning social and learning behavior in a regression model. secondary it was tested if the agreement between different self-report scales regarding social and learning behavior as well as prosocial behavior and psychological stress is effected by the student 's age and gender. it appears that rater agreements between girls and their teachers are larger than between boys and their teachers. possible explanations for these results are discussed.
prosocial_behavior	recently, concerns have been raised that adolescents' prolific social media use may cause them to become less empathic. however, direct empirical evidence is missing and research suggests that social media use can also be beneficial for adolescents' psychosocial development. the present study aims to investigate whether and how social media use influences empathy. we surveyed 942 dutch adolescents (10-14 years) twice, with a one-year interval. the results showed that social media use is related to an increase in cognitive and affective empathy over time. specifically, adolescents' social media use improved both their ability to understand (cognitive empathy) and share the feelings of their peers (affective empathy). (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
prosocial_behavior	drawing on norm-activation theory, this study explores the link between tourists' perceptions of the negative impacts of tourism and their perceived responsibility. a proposed theoretical framework was examined and verified through exploratory and confirmatory research processes. self-administered questionnaires were collected at two unesco world natural heritage sites in china. the findings of this research suggest that tourists' perceptions of the negative impacts of tourism positively affect their ascription of responsibility, which positively influences tourists' perceptions of responsibility. nevertheless, the accessibility of information about tourism impacts is far from enough to foster in tourists a sense of responsibility, which is important for the promotion of responsible behaviours. several practical implications are provided to address tourists' sense of responsibility, including enhancing tourists' awareness of negative tourism impacts, increasing the availability and accessibility of information about tourism impacts, and recommending behaviours for tourists to make a positive difference to destinations.
false_memories	false memories commonly activate the anterior/dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (a/dlpfc) and the hippocampus. these regions are assumed to work in concert during false memories, which would predict a positive correlation between the magnitudes of activity in these regions across participants. however, the a/dlpfc may also inhibit the hippocampus, which would predict a negative correlation between the magnitudes of activity in these regions. in the present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) study, during encoding, participants viewed abstract shapes in the left or right visual field. during retrieval, participants classified each old shape as previously in the left or right visual field followed by an unsure-sure-very sure confidence rating. the contrast of left-hits and left-misses produced two activations in the hippocampus and three activations in the left a/dlpfc. for each participant, activity associated with false memories (right-left-very sure responses) from the two hippocampal regions was plotted as a function of activity in each a/dlpfc region. across participants, for one region in the left anterior prefrontal cortex, there was a negative correlation between the magnitudes of activity in this region and the hippocampus. this suggests that the anterior prefrontal cortex might inhibit the hippocampus during false memories and that participants engage either the anterior prefrontal cortex or the hippocampus during false memories.
false_memories	rating the relevance of words for the imagined situation of being stranded in the grasslands without survival material leads to exceptionally good memory for these words. this survival processing effect has received much attention because it promises to elucidate the evolutionary foundations of memory. however, the proximate mechanisms of the survival processing effect have to be identified before informed speculations about its adaptive function are possible. here, we test and contrast 2 promising accounts of the survival processing effect. according to the 1st account, the effect is the consequence of the prioritized processing of threat-related information. according to the 2nd account, thinking about the relevance of items for survival stimulates thinking about object function, which is a particularly elaborate form of encoding. experiment 1 showed that the emotional properties of the survival scenario, as manipulated by the negative or positive framing of the scenario, did not influence recall. a focus on threat at encoding led to worse recall than a focus on function. the latter finding was replicated in experiment 2, which further showed that focusing on threat did not lead to a memory advantage over a pleasantness control condition. the beneficial effect of inducing a functional focus at encoding even surpasses that of the standard survival processing instruction. together, the results support the theory that thinking about function is an important component of the survival processing effect.
false_memories	background. the production of false memories (fms) is a normal phenomenon, which can be affected in neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer 's disease (ad). only few studies investigated fms in patients with dementia with lewy bodies (dlb). objective. the aim of our preliminary study was to assess fms in patients with dlb and to identify the underlying cognitive deficits influencing the production of fms in dlb and ad. methods. ten ad patients and nine dlb patients performed a memory task (free recall and recognition) coupling two paradigms, namely the drm (deese-roediger-mcdermott) paradigm, promoting the production of fms and the ""remember/know"" (r/k) paradigm, allowing to investigate the phenomenological experience during the recollection of a memory. a standard cognitive evaluation of memory, executive and instrumental functions completed the assessment. results. no fm was found in the dlb group during free recall, while the number of fms was substantially identical in both groups during recognition. however, fms differed from the phenomenological experience, with more k responses in dlb patients and more r responses in ad patients. none of the tests of the standard neuropsychological evaluation did correlate with measures of interest of fms. conclusion. in ad patients, the r responses associated with fms reflect an alteration of the source memory. in dlb patients, the critical item lead to a sense of familiarity, without recollection of the circumstances in which the item was encoded, hence the k responses. this indicates a preservation of their source memory. contrary to expectations, the type of fms in both groups was not correlated to their cognitive profile. hence, cognitive processes underlying the fms appear to be different in ad and the lbd, but fms seem independent of memory and executive abilities in these diseases.
false_memories	because of its reconstructive nature, autobiographical memory (am) is subject to a range of distortions. one distortion involves the erroneous incorporation of features from one episodic memory into another, forming what are known as memory conjunction errors. healthy aging has been associated with an enhanced susceptibility to conjunction errors for laboratory stimuli, yet it is unclear whether these findings translate to the autobiographical domain. we investigated the impact of aging on vulnerability to am conjunction errors, and explored potential cognitive processes underlying the formation of these errors. an imagination recombination paradigm was used to elicit am conjunction errors in young and older adults. participants also completed a battery of neuropsychological tests targeting relational memory and inhibition ability. consistent with findings using laboratory stimuli, older adults were more susceptible to am conjunction errors than younger adults. however, older adults were not differentially vulnerable to the inflating effects of imagination. individual variation in am conjunction error vulnerability was attributable to inhibitory capacity. an inability to suppress the cumulative familiarity of individual am details appears to contribute to the heightened formation of am conjunction errors with age.
false_memories	objective: the trauma model of dissociative identity disorder (did) posits that did is etiologically related to chronic neglect and physical and/or sexual abuse in childhood. in contrast, the fantasy model posits that did can be simulated and is mediated by high suggestibility, fantasy proneness, and sociocultural influences. to date, these two models have not been jointly tested in individuals with did in an empirical manner. method: this study included matched groups [patients (n = 33) and controls (n = 32)] that were compared on psychological trauma and fantasy measures: diagnosed genuine did (did-g, n = 17), did-simulating healthy controls (did-s, n = 16), individuals with post-traumatic stress disorder (ptsd, n = 16), and healthy controls (hc, n = 16). additionally, personality-state-dependent measures were obtained for did-g and did-s; both neutral personality states (nps) and trauma-related personality states (tps) were tested. conclusion: for trauma measures, the did-g group had the highest scores, with tps higher than nps, followed by the ptsd, did-s, and hc groups. the did-g group was not more fantasy-prone or suggestible and did not generate more false memories. malingering measures were inconclusive. evidence consistently supported the trauma model of did and challenges the core hypothesis of the fantasy model.
problem-solving	there is growing interest in the description of short-lived patterns in the spatiotemporal cortical activity monitored via neuroimaging. most traditional analysis methods, designed to estimate relatively long-term brain dynamics, are not always appropriate to capture these patterns. here we introduce a novel data-driven approach for detecting short-lived fmri brain activity patterns. exploiting density peak clustering (rodriguez and laio [2014]), our approach reveals well localized clusters by identifying and grouping together voxels whose time-series are similar, irrespective of their brain location, even when very short time windows (similar to 10 volumes) are used. the method, which we call coherence density peak clustering (cdpc), is first tested on simulated data and compared with a standard unsupervised approach for fmri analysis, independent component analysis (ica). cdpc identifies activated voxels with essentially no false-positives and proves more reliable than ica, which is troubled by a number of false positives comparable to that of true positives. the reliability of the method is demonstrated on real fmri data from a simple motor task, containing brief iterations of the same movement. the clusters identified are found in regions expected to be involved in the task, and repeat synchronously with the paradigm. the methodology proposed is especially suitable for the study of short-time brain dynamics and single trial experiments, where the event or task of interest cannot be repeated for the same subject, as happens, for instance, in problem-solving, learning and decision-making. a gui implementation of our method is available for download at https://github.com/micheleallegra/cdpc. (c) 2016 wiley periodicals, inc.
problem-solving	a vast number of problem solving frameworks have been established in the realms of management, business, mathematics, healthcare, aerospace, law and etcetera towards facilitating effective decision making in normative form in particular. it was learnt that those problem solving frameworks are originated mainly from practical exercises of practitioners and/or improvement/revision of an earlier frameworks. against this bottom-up approach in the establishment of problem solving frameworks, this paper continues promoting the establishment of a problem solving framework following top-down approach by synthesizing the deductive inference i.e., the second inference process of pragmatism 's scientific method. the synthesis has resulted in the identification of the decision sub-processes of pragmatism 's deductive inference namely analysis and demonstration. this paper posits that these two decision processes are aligned with both the key and strategies of the decision processes of the renowned problem solving frameworks in practice in management, business, mathematics, healthcare and law and hence, the decision processes of deductive inference in particular and pragmatism 's philosophical method in general is an alternative for decision making processes and problem solving frameworks following the top-down approach.
problem-solving	purpose - the purpose of this paper is to provide an overview of human resource development (hrd) education in middle eastern countries. in particular, the authors discuss the current state of hrd education, country readiness and challenges that hinder hrd progress in middle eastern countries. they argue that hrd programs need to prepare young employees for leadership roles through adapting constructivist pedagogy, including problem-solving, critical thinking and creativity. design/methodology/approach - the design of this paper followed a qualitative approach. the authors conducted in-depth interviews with five hrd experts in middle eastern countries and conducted integrative literature review and secondary data analysis. findings -data analysis provided an overview of hrd education, looked at options individuals interested in hrd education might have, provided views on constructivism vs instructivism as education pedagogies and discussed cultural factors that impede critical reflection in the workplace. research limitations/implications - to understand how to introduce constructivist elements to instructivist learning cultures, and to sustain it, hrd scholars in the middle eastern countries need to diminish the misalignment between instructional philosophies of trainers, trainees and national or institutional systems. practical implications - understanding how policy, resources, infrastructure and culture influence learning expectations is vital to introducing innovative training activities or scaling them up to other workshops and systems. originality/value - this research sheds light on hrd education in the middle eastern countries; provides an overview of employment challenges and opportunities to improve workplace learning; and provides scholars, practitioners and other stakeholders interested in hrd with suggestions to develop successful workforce education.
problem-solving	sugars are the most stereochemically intricate family of biomolecules and present substantial challenges to anyone trying to understand their nomenclature, reactions or branched structures. current crystallographic programs provide an abstraction layer allowing inexpert structural biologists to build complete protein or nucleic acid model components automatically either from scratch or with little manual intervention. this is, however, still not generally true for sugars. the need for carbohydrate-specific building and validation tools has been highlighted a number of times in the past, concomitantly with the introduction of a new generation of experimental methods that have been ramping up the production of protein-sugar complexes and glycoproteins for the past decade. while some incipient advances have been made to address these demands, correctly modelling and refining carbohydrates remains a challenge. this article will address many of the typical difficulties that a structural biologist may face when dealing with carbohydrates, with an emphasis on problem solving in the resolution range where x-ray crystallography and cryo-electron microscopy are expected to overlap in the next decade.
problem-solving	objective: to compare perception of students on usefulness of interactive tutorials and clinically-oriented problem-solving tutorials. methods: the cross-sectional study was carried out from january 2012 to november 2013 at bahria university medical and dental college, karachi. the perception of medical students on usefulness of interactive tutorials and clinically-oriented problem-solving tutorials was acquired through a questionnaire distributed to medical students having completed the first two years of studies. the responses on various aspects of learning of physiology were acquired on a scale of poor, good or excellent. the learning abilities and acquired skills were compared in terms of not at all, to some extent, and to great extent. data was analysed using spss 15. results: of the hundred students initially enrolled, complete response was obtained from 83(83%). of them, 47(57%) were females. there was significant difference in understanding of structure and function by clinically-oriented problem-solving tutorials (p=0.04). the students preferred clinically-oriented problem-solving tutorials as far as understating of difficult concepts was concerned (p < 0.01). presentation skills were improved by interactive tutorials (p=0.02) whereas clinical reasoning skills acquired by clinically-oriented problem-solving tutorials was found to be significantly better (p < 0.05). both tutorials helped in the learning of content of physiology. conclusion: clinical reasoning skills were acquired more by clinically-oriented problem-solving tutorials that helped in better understanding of structure and functions.
prejudice	existing studies have found that restaurant servers sometimes deliver service that is informed by their customers' race. however, we know considerably less about the causes underlying such discriminatory behaviors within the restaurant context. in this study, we advance this literature by analyzing data derived from a survey of restaurant servers (n = 195) to assess the effects of working in a racialized workplace environment, characterized by racist and stereotypical discourse, on servers' reports of providing race-based service. our findings reveal a strong statistically significant positive relationship between observing racialized workplace discourse and servers' self-professed discriminatory behaviors. furthermore, we find that these effects are not mediated or moderated by servers' willingness to participate in the discursive spreading of racial stereotypes by discussing their customers' race with peers. we conclude by identifying suggestions that restaurant leaders might consider to reduce racial discrimination within the restaurant industry.
prejudice	this study examines the factorial invariance of the scale on beliefs about children 's adjustment in same-sex families (sbcassf) across countries in three samples: chilean, spanish, and hispanic university students. the scale analyzes attitudes toward the consequences of the rearing and education of children by parents with a homosexual sexual orientation. the instrument consists of two subscales: individual opposition and normative opposition. the spanish sample is composed of 199 university students, the chilean sample is made up of 279 students, and the hispanic sample consists of 114 students. the results provide empirical evidence for the reliability of the sbcassf in the samples from the countries and its factorial invariance (strict invariance). results are also provided about differences between countries and by sex. the sbcassf could be a potentially useful measure for educators, psychologists, and other mental health professionals who wish to study beliefs about the child-rearing practices of same-sex parents.
prejudice	there are clear and compelling racial disparities in access to renal transplant, which is the therapy of choice for many patients with end stage renal disease. this paper conceptualizes the role of racism (i.e., internalized, personally-mediated, and institutionalized) in creating and perpetuating these disparities at multiple levels of the social ecology by integrating two often-cited theories in the literature. internalized racism is manifested at the intrapersonal level when, for example, african american patients devalue their self-worth, thereby not pursuing the most aggressive treatment available. personally-mediated racism is manifested at the interpersonal level when, for example, physicians exhibit unconscious race bias that impacts their treatment decisions. one example of institutionalized racism being manifested at the institutional, community, and public policy levels is the long-standing existence of racial residential segregation and empirically established links between neighborhood racial composition and dialysis facility-level transplantation rates. this paper concludes with clinical, research, and policy recommendations.
prejudice	objectives: based on the premise that internalized homonegativity (ih) is a product of the incorporation of environmental heterosexism, the authors examined the influence of sociopolitical and individual influences on ih. methods: the cross-sectional study consisted of 109,382 gay and bisexual men across 77 countries. results: variables at the (european) country-level that were associated with higher levels of ih included lack of laws recognizing same-sex relationships and perceived and actual negative gay-related public opinion about homosexuals. individual-level variables significantly associated with ih were public opinion about homosexuals and exposure to gay-related victimization/discrimination. conclusions: an improved sociopolitical climate for lgb individuals is needed.
prejudice	we investigated the effects of different perspective taking instructions on emotional variables in the context of intergroup reconciliation. in three experiments we found that individual-level and group-level perspective taking increased willingness to compensate an outgroup for historical transgressions of the ingroup. the data suggests that the two forms of perspective taking trigger different psychological processes. individual-level perspective taking was more strongly linked to feelings of empathy. group-level perspective taking increased feelings of collective guilt. collective guilt mediated the positive effect of group-level perspective taking on willingness to compensate. no such effect was found for individual-level perspective taking.
antisocial_personality_disorder	around half the inmates in prison institutions have antisocial personality disorder (aspd). a recent theory has proposed that a dysfunction of the endogenous opioid system (eos) underlies the neurobiology of borderline personality disorder (bpd). in the present theoretical paper, based on a comprehensive database and hand search of the relevant literature, this hypothesis is extended to aspd, which may be the predominant expression of eos dysfunction in men, while the same pathology underlies bpd in women. according to evidence from human and animal studies, the problematic behaviours of persons with antisocial, callous, or psychopathic traits may be seen as desperate, unconscious attempts to stimulate their deficient eos, which plays a key role in brain reward circuits. if the needs of this system are not being met, the affected persons experience dysphoric mood, discomfort, or irritability, and strive to increase binding of endogenous opioids to receptors by using the rewarding effects of aggression by exertion of physical or manipulative power on others, by abusing alcohol or substances that have the reward system as target, by creating an endorphin rush by self-harm, by increasing the frequency of their sexual contacts, or by impulsive actions and sensation seeking. symptoms associated with aspd can be treated with opioid antagonists like naltrexone, naloxone, or nalmefene. copyright (c) 2015 john wiley & sons, ltd.
antisocial_personality_disorder	currently, psychopathy and related terms such as antisocial personality disorder are popular yet problematic constructs within forensic psychology and other disciplines. psychopathy is traced typically to the works of pinel and prichard in the early 19(th) century, and it has even been linked to biblical passages, although there appears to be little or no support for the latter claim. the first use of the term psychopathy in german psychiatry of the mid-19(th) century referred only to psychological disturbance in general, or personality diseases', although german psychiatrists such as kraepelin did propose more specific definitions of the term related to social deviance. our modern understanding of psychopathy as a psychiatric disorder of an undetermined genetic origin involving antisocial elements and a lack of feeling or concern for others owes much to the clinical work and writings of cleckley. antisocial personality disorder appears similarly to derive from the work of psychiatric nosologists like kraepelin and schneider, while sociopathy is due more to the work of partridge in the 1920s and 1930s.
antisocial_personality_disorder	purpose - the purpose of this paper is to explore the different clinical features of pathological demand avoidance (pda) and antisocial personality disorder (aspd) presented in the form of a single case study. the study highlights the potential of misdiagnosis and conceptual confusions to practitioners in forensic settings between the two conditions when working with offenders with personality disorders. design/methodology/approach - a case formulation using the ""five ps"" method based on the personal history of an incarcerated male is presented and the clinical similarities and differences between pda and aspd are delineated. these differences and similarities are evaluated and applied to offender management including intervention options. findings - there are considerable similarities between aspd and pda making the two conditions difficult to separate. both diagnostic criteria identify childhood behavioural problems, aggression, destructiveness, conduct disorder (cd), manipulation and non-compliance as indications of the disorder. for example, the criteria for later adult aspd are the presence of childhood antisocial behaviour and cd. however, these behaviours may also be suggestive of the attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and non-compliance that are part of pda. violent behaviours and aggression can also be perceived in a similar way. misdiagnosis of pda as aspd reduces the efficiency of treatment programmes. originality/value - the implications of these findings could prove useful in the successful risk management of offenders with pda. given the similar behavioural characteristics between pda and aspd, the prevalence of pda among offenders may be higher than observed. the aim of this study is to raise awareness of potential conceptual complications and clinical confusions between the two conditions with a view to aid offender management through case formulation. a large scale study into offenders with pda would draw attention to the prevalence of the condition as well as its association with offending behaviour.
antisocial_personality_disorder	objective: to identify subgroups of forensic psychiatric patients based on the age onset of serious mental illness and offending and assess the external validity of the subgroups with theoretically based sociodemographic, clinical, legal and risk-related variables. method: the age onset of serious mental illness and criminal contact was ascertained for a sample of 232 patients. a range of sociodemographic, clinical, legal and risk-related variables were coded to assess whether age onset subgroups differed in a manner consistent with the literature on typologies of mentally ill offenders. results: one-quarter of the sample was classified as early starters (patients whose first offense occurred before becoming mentally ill), while two-thirds were late starters (where first offense occurred following illness onset). a small percentage (8%) of patients were deemed late late starters, defined as late starters who had experienced 10+ years of illness and were >37years upon first arrest. a larger proportion of early starters had a substance use disorder, antisocial personality disorder and a greater number of static/historical risk factors for violence. early starters were younger upon first arrest and had more previous criminal contacts compared to late starters and late late starters. mental illness was found to start later in life for late late starters; this group was also more likely to have been married and to have a spouse as victim in the index offense. conclusion: we found support for distinct subgroups of mentally ill offenders based on the age onset of illness and criminal contact. compared to late starters, offenses committed by early starters may be motivated more frequently by antisocial lifestyle and attitudes, as well as more instrumental behaviors related to substance abuse. in addition, late late starters may represent a distinct third subgroup within late starters, characterized by relatively higher levels of functioning and social stability; future work should replicate. findings suggest different rehabilitation needs of the subgroups.
antisocial_personality_disorder	background: people in treatment for substance use disorder commonly have comorbid personality disorders, including antisocial personality disorder. little is known about treatments that specifically address comorbid antisocial personality disorder. methods: self-rated help received for antisocial personality disorder was assessed during follow-ups at 3, 9 and 15 months post-randomization of a randomized trial of psychoeducation for people with comorbid substance use and antisocial personality disorder (n = 175). results: randomization to psychoeducation was associated with increased perceived help for antisocial personality disorder. perceived help for antisocial personality disorder was in turn associated with more days abstinent and higher treatment satisfaction at the 3-month follow-up, and reduced risk of dropping out of treatment after the 3-month follow-up, and perceived help mediated the effects of random assignment on days abstinent at 3-month. follow-up. conclusions: brief psychoeducation for antisocial personality disorder increased patients' self-rated help for antisocial personality disorder in substance abuse treatment, and reporting having received help for antisocial personality disorder was in turn associated with better short-term outcomes, e.g., days abstinent, dropout from treatment and treatment satisfaction.
nonverbal_communication	the phenotype of cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (cdkl5) syndrome includes rett syndrome variant with early onset seizures, early onset epileptic encephalopathy; and severe developmental delay. autistic features have often been reported in literature, but detailed reports of the behavior of these individuals are lacking. we describe the clinical picture of a girl aged 15 years 9 months affected by cdkl5 syndrome, with special attention to the neurobehavioral phenotype. the evaluation showed, apart from a profound intellectual disability, the presence of atypical features of behavior, mainly in relating to people, in imitation, and in verbal and nonverbal communication, thus justifying the diagnosis of comorbid autism spectrum disorder. a formal assessment of the behavior, through appropriate tools, is necessary to choose the most appropriate rehabilitative intervention and to characterize in more detail the cdkl5 syndrome phenotype. we propose a testing protocol for the neurobehavioral assessment of these patients.
nonverbal_communication	whereas the question of verbal versus nonverbal primacy has gained intensive interest, considerably less attention has been devoted to parental response to children 's verbal/nonverbal incongruence. this study comprehensively analyzed parental responses to children 's incongruence during mutual interactions. parent-child interactions (n = 160) in structured joint game sequences were filmed in their homes and analyzed using a mixed multivariate design. unexpectedly, parents related almost equally to verbal and nonverbal channels. the analysis of a wide range of social and situational contexts, including child 's sex, parent 's sex, ses, and task difficulty, highlighted their significant effects and delineated the contexts that activated verbal primacy, nonverbal primacy, and incongruent responses. this study provides a composite theoretical framework for the relative dominance of verbal versus nonverbal communication.
nonverbal_communication	socio-motor improvisation is defined as the creative action of two or more people without a script or anticipated preparation. it is evaluated through two main parameters: movement synchronization and movement richness. experts in art (e.g., dance, theater or music) are known to exhibit higher synchronization and to perform richer movements during interpersonal improvisation, but how these competences evolve over time is largely unknown. in the present study, we investigated whether performing more synchronized and richer movements over time can promote the acquisition of improvisation. pairs of novice participants were instructed to play an improvisation mirror game in three different sessions. between sessions, they performed an unintended interpersonal coordination task in which synchronization and richness were manipulated, resulting in four different groups of dyads. our results demonstrate that synchronization during improvisation improved for all groups whereas movement richness only enhanced for dyads that performed synchronized movements during unintended coordination tasks. our findings suggest that movement synchrony contributes more than movement richness to the acquisition of socio-motor improvisation in the mirror game. (c) 2015 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
nonverbal_communication	human body odor is a source of important social information. in this study, we explore whether the sex of an individual can be established based on smelling axillary odor and whether exposure to male and female odors biases chemosensory and social perception. in a double-blind, pseudo-randomized application, 31 healthy normosmic heterosexual male and female raters were exposed to male and female chemosignals (odor samples of 27 heterosexual donors collected during a cardio workout) and a no odor sample. recipients rated chemosensory samples on a masculinity-femininity scale and provided intensity, familiarity and pleasantness ratings. additionally, the modulation of social perception (gender neutral faces and personality attributes) and affective introspection (mood) by male and female chemosignals was assessed. male and female axillary odors were rated as rather masculine, regardless of the sex of the donor. as opposed to the masculinity bias in the odor perception, a femininity bias modulating social perception appeared. a facilitated femininity detection in gender neutral faces and personality attributes in male and female chemosignals appeared. no chemosensory effect on mood of the rater was observed. the results are discussed with regards to the use of male and female chemosignals in affective and social communication.
nonverbal_communication	this paper examines the impact of nonverbal expressions of power by organizational spokespersons during different crisis stages. study 1 investigates how vocal nonverbal cues express power during crises and how this affects perceptions of spokespersons. the results illustrate that a spokesperson who speaks with a lowered voice pitch, which expresses power, appears more competent than one with a raised voice pitch. study 2 examines the moderating influence of crisis stage on the impact of visual nonverbal cues. during a crisis, powerful nonverbal behaviors minimize reputational damage through an increase in perceived competence of the spokesperson. in the aftermath of a crisis, powerless nonverbal behaviors positively affect the organizational reputation through an intermediate effect on perceived sincerity of the spokesperson.
leadership	since the turn of the millennium, interest in collaborative and distributed conceptualisations of leadership has gathered momentum, particularly in education. during the same period, higher education institutions have been embedded in practices shaped by new public management. the resultant reconfiguration of structural arrangements within institutions has led to the existence of two staff groups, professional and academic. the former is often aligned to the rise in managerial practices over claimed academic collegial practices, thus creating conditions for a possible dualistic positioning with the two groups. distributed leadership and collaboration are claimed to be approaches that overcome this dualism, yet they may also be susceptible to maintaining this dual state and subtly reaffirm embedded interests and structures. as an alternative, a leadership-as-practice approach ontologically shifts the way in which sense is made of organisations. the practice-based model for understanding organisations presented in this paper offers a theoretical and applied framework that incorporates and also goes beyond collaborative and distributed leadership due to its association with practice theory.
leadership	voters do not associate female candidates with feminine stereotypes, but voters also do not associate female candidates with the qualities most valued in political leaders such as experience and knowledge. current research offers conflicting conclusions on whether female candidates benefit from breaking with feminine norms or face a backlash for being too aggressive and not likable enough. using a series of experiments, i show how counterstereotypic gender strategies, including women emphasizing masculine trait competencies, improve evaluations of female candidates along both masculine and feminine leadership dimensions. these results offer novel insights into how female candidates can overcome perceptual deficits among voters that they lack critical masculine leadership qualities. i also show that female candidates can overcome these biases without losing on traditional feminine strengths such as warmth and likability. however, counterstereotypic female candidates can face a ""likability"" backlash from out-partisan voters. these findings suggest counterstereotypes may be more beneficial for female candidates in a primary election context when voters are copartisans rather than general elections where candidates often need cross-partisan support.
leadership	diagnostics are a cornerstone of the practice of infectious diseases. however, various limitations frequently lead to unmet clinical needs. in most other domains, diagnostics focus on narrowly defined questions, provide readily interpretable answers, and use true gold standards for development. in contrast, infectious diseases diagnostics must contend with scores of potential pathogens, dozens of clinical syndromes, emerging pathogens, rapid evolution of existing pathogens and their associated resistance mechanisms, and the absence of gold standards in many situations. in spite of these challenges, the importance and value of diagnostics cannot be underestimated. therefore, the antibacterial resistance leadership group has identified diagnostics as 1 of 4 major areas of emphasis. herein, we provide an overview of that development, highlighting several examples where innovation in study design, content, and execution is advancing the field of infectious diseases diagnostics.
leadership	social network analysis presupposes that observed social behavior is influenced by an unobserved network. traditional approaches to inferring the latent network use pairwise descriptive statistics that rely on a variety of measures of co-occurrence. while these techniques have proven useful in a wide range of applications, the literature does not describe the generating mechanism of the observed data from the network. in a previous article, the authors presented a technique which used a finite mixture model as the connection between the unobserved network and the observed social behavior. this model assumed that each group was the result of a star graph on a subset of the population. thus, each group was the result of a leader who selected members of the population to be in the group. they called these hub models. this approach treats the network values as parameters of a model. however, this leads to a general challenge in estimating parameters which must be addressed. for small datasets there can be far more parameters to estimate than there are observations. under these conditions, the estimated network can be unstable. in this article, we propose a solution which penalizes the number of nodes which can exert a leadership role. we implement this as a pseudo-expectation maximization algorithm. we demonstrate this technique through a series of simulations which show that when the number of leaders is sparse, parameter estimation is improved. further, we apply this technique to a dataset of animal behavior and an example of recommender systems. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
leadership	as of october 2016, use of federal older americans act funds for health promotion and disease prevention will be restricted to the administration on aging 's criteria for high-level evidence-based health promotion programs. dissemination of these programs to rural communities remains limited. therefore a strong need exists to identify strategies that facilitate program implementation and sustainability. the objective of this study was to compare organizational readiness and implementation strategies used by rural communities that achieved varying levels of success in sustaining evidence-based health promotion programs for older adults. we utilized a qualitative multi-site case study design to analyze the longitudinal experiences of eight rural sites working to implement evidence-based health promotion program over 3 years (8/2012-7/2015). multiple sources of data (interviews, documents, reports, surveys) from each site informed the analysis. we used conventional content analysis to conduct a cross-case comparison to identify common features of rural counties that successfully implemented and sustained their target evidence-based health promotion program. readiness to implement evidence-based programs as low at baseline as all site leaders described needing to secure additional resources for program implementation. sites that successfully utilized six essential resources implemented and sustained greater numbers of workshops: (1) external partnerships, (2) agency leadership commitment, (3) ongoing source of workshop leaders, (4) health promotion coordination tasks assigned to specific staff, (5) organizational stability, and (6) change team engagement. the six essential resources described in this study can help rural communities assess their readiness to implement health promotion programs and work secure the resources necessary for successful implementation.
child_abuse	adult victims of child physical abuse (cpa) are more likely to perpetrate intimate partner violence (ipv) than are nonvictims. however, not all cpa victims go on to become violent toward their partners, suggesting that other factors moderate risk for ipv perpetration. drawing on the background-situational model (riggs & o'leary, 1989, 1996), this study examines the independent and interactive effects of cpa history and negative affect arising during conflict with an intimate partner in predicting physical ipv perpetration. fifty-three heterosexual dating couples completed questionnaires assessing cpa history and perpetration of physical ipv. couples discussed the largest source of conflict in their relationship for 10 min. videos of these discussions were coded for negative affect. using an actor partner interdependence model approach to account for the dyadic interdependence of the data, findings revealed that at average levels of negative affect, cpa severity predicted greater ipv perpetration for both men and women. however, at average levels of cpa, negative affect during conflict was positively predictive of ipv perpetration for men only. findings further revealed an interaction such that for men, the positive association between cpa severity and ipv perpetration became stronger as their negative affect during conflict increased.
child_abuse	objectives: to test the performance of a single 3d ir t2-weighted sequence compared to a whole-body mri protocol including dwi, t1-weighted and stir 3d ir (3s) in a pediatric population. methods: two radiologists (15 and 30 years of experience),reviewed wbmris: first the stir alone and 2 weeks later the 3s protocol. the indications were variable. only positive findings were explicitly reported. a third reader compared the results to gold standard (gs) exams specific for the pathology. agreement between the two readers, sensitivity and positive predictive value of stir were calculated. results: fifty-four wbmris were included (16 suspected child abuse, 8 chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis (crmo), 11 lymphomas, 4 osteosarcomas, 9 neuroblastomas, 6 histiocytosis). the mean age was 6 years 10 months, range: 1 month to 15 years. agreement between readers was of 0.87 [0.82-0.91] for 3d stir, and 0.89 [0.83-0.93] for the 3s protocol. for reader 1 sensitivity of 3d stir was 81.6% and of 3s 81.0%. for reader 2 it was 74.1% for 3d stir and 74.7% for 3s. for both readers and for both protocols, the positive predictive value (ppv) depended on the type of disease (for example 100% histocytosis and osteosarcomas, >90% for child abuse, >85% crmo but <70% for lymphoma and neuroblastoma). conclusions: sensitivities were not different between the 2 protocols, for each reader and were different between the 2 readers for each protocol. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
child_abuse	the quality of the caregiver-child relationship is key to the well-being of children but assumptions based on research in western countries about the benefits of different types of substitute care may be questionable when applied elsewhere. this study assessed the quality of caregiver-child relationships and their association with child abuse in foster and residential care in nigeria. the findings are relevant to european and north american countries as 4% of those looked after and 6% of care entrants in england are of african heritage and it is too easy to draw wrong conclusions about the care they might have received in their own countries. the study scrutinised 314 children aged 7-17 years from foster (157) and residential care settings (157) and assessed the caregiver-child relationship using the positive relationship scale. the child abuse measure covered physical, sexual and emotional components and aggregated these into a single score. the subsequent analysis explored differences in child abuse between foster and residential care and the significance of other factors influencing levels of child abuse. it was found that the children in residential care had more positive relationships with caregivers than did those in foster care, even though abuse occurred in both settings. there were no gender differences in experiences of child abuse in either setting but children under the age of 12 were significantly more likely to have been abused while in care than those over this age. for children in residential care, age was the most significant factor associated with abuse. as these findings provide a perspective on children in substitute care in a west african city, they may be useful to social workers elsewhere who are responsible for children of african heritage, as they suggest that abuse often occurs in foster homes and that child-carer relationships in residential establishments can be good.
child_abuse	purpose it is common to evaluate children who have sustained minor head trauma with computed tomography (ct) of the head. scalp swelling, in particular, has been associated with intracranial injury. a subset of patients, however, present in delayed fashion, often days after the head trauma, as soft tissue edema progresses and their caregiver notices scalp swelling. we explore the value of further workup in this setting. methods we conducted a retrospective review of a prospectively collected cohort of children <= 24 months of age presenting to the texas children 's hospital with scalp swelling more than 24 h following a head trauma. cases were collected over a 2-year study period from june 1, 2014 to may 31, 2016. results seventy-six patients comprising 78 patient encounters were included in our study. the mean age at presentation was 8.8 months (range 3 days-24 months). all patients had noncontrast ct of the head as part of their evaluation by emergency medicine, as well as screening for nonaccidental trauma (nat) by the child protection team. the most common finding on ct head was a linear/nondisplaced skull fracture (sf) with associated extra-axial hemorrhage (epidural or subdural hematoma), which was found in 31/78 patient encounters (40%). of all 78 patient encounters, 43 patients (55%) were discharged from the emergency room (er), 17 patients (22%) were admitted for neurologic monitoring, and 18 patients (23%) were admitted solely to allow further nat evaluation. of those patients admitted, none experienced a neurologic decline and all had nonfocal neurologic exams on discharge. no patient returned to the er in delayed fashion for a neurologic decline. of all the patient encounters, no patient required surgery. conclusions pediatric patients <= 24 months of age presenting to the er in delayed fashion with scalp swelling after minor head trauma-who were otherwise nonfocal on examination-did not require surgical intervention and did not experience any neurologic decline. further radiographic investigation did not alter neurosurgical management in these patients; however, it should be noted that workup for child abuse and social care may have been influenced by ct findings, suggesting the need for the future development of a clinical decision-making tool to help safely avoid ct imaging in this setting.
child_abuse	background. the perception of patients' needs of support and sensitive communication about psychosocial stress all represent new, exacting tasks for nursing staff, midwives, social workers and physicians in obstetrics. as part of good start into the family (gustaf), a learning and teaching project in a university hospital, we were able to interview parents about their experiences with the intervention. objective. evaluation of the process of establishing contacts, the communication with professionals in obstetrics and the support offered from the perspective of parents. methods. qualitative guided interviews with seven families one year after the delivery. results. problem areas reported by parents were predominately related to increased parental care and the feeling of being overwhelmed in addition to social stress. core themes in communication addressed the entry into conversations, which was remembered negatively when advice was perceived as improper, patronizing or stigmatizing, and positively when professionals had listened sensitively and had provided tangible support. some conversations increased stress. relating to assistance and support, parents reported both positive and negative experiences. justness and reliability emerged as particularly important topics. discussion. the attendance of families around the time of the delivery poses varying demands upon the hospital staff, not necessarily in keeping with traditional professional attitudes and competencies. careful attention to the personal physical and emotional well-being of mothers and newborns, non-stigmatizing entry into the conversations, justness of the support and avoiding inconsistencies within the institution and the network all appear to be of great importance.
gender_roles	earlier evidence predominantly supports that women are more ethical than men. with the replication of such a hypothesis for testing, this study further examined whether feminine gender roles are a better predictor of ethical attitudes, ethical behaviors, and corporate responsibility values than the biological sex. four hundred ten management students from two technical institutes in eastern india participated in this study. along with the socio-demographic variables in the questionnaire, inventories were used to assess gender roles, ethical attitudes, ethical behaviors, and corporate responsibility values. the inventories had acceptable reliability and validity. the results suggested that when the confounding effects of age, caste, and rural/urban origin are controlled, women manifest higher corporate responsibility values than men, but they embody similar ethical attitudes and ethical behaviors as men. furthermore, the feminine roles of the participants were found to be more consistent, potent, and direct predictors of ethical attitudes, ethical behaviors, and corporate responsibility values than the biological sex. hence, individuals with feminine roles may be better suited for ethical responsibilities.
gender_roles	we examine the relationship between unemployment, life satisfaction and affective well-being depending on family status and, within couples, on the employment status of one 's partner. our data, that we collected using the day reconstruction method, show that unemployment is negatively related to life satisfaction, but not to affective well-being. living in a partnership strengthens the loss in life satisfaction of men, but weakens that of women. unemployment of a person 's partner is associated with a smaller loss in life satisfaction for unemployed men, but with a larger loss for women. we argue that these findings reflect to a large extent changes in cognitive well-being, which is closely related to identity utility. the unemployed 's feeling of identity appears to be affected by traditional gender roles.
gender_roles	this study investigated how media exposure affects how noncollege women envision their futures. over 5 days, a prolonged exposure experiment presented childless women (aged 21-35) with magazine portrayals of females in gender-congruent (mother/homemaker or beauty ideals) or gender-incongruent (professional) social roles. responses to an open-ended question revealed that 3 days after media exposure, only gender-congruent roles remained salient. exposure to homemaker portrayals induced more thoughts about possible future selves (pfss) and fostered concerns about motherhood and career roles; it also produced more positive affective valence compared with exposure to portrayals of professional women, particularly among women with gender-congruent life circumstances. exposure impacts were mediated by the extent to which women linked the magazine portrayals to their own pfss.
gender_roles	while the first narcoseries as sin tetas no hay paraiso and las munecas de la mafia have had characterized female roles as victims, telemundo (a broadcast television network) has changed this image by including leading female roles of the drug dealing. seemingly, it provokes an investment in the traditional gender roles, because these women turn into an active agent in a patriarchal world. nevertheless, these protagonists are defined by means of stereotypically feminine elements, such as kindness, sacrifice and maternity that are concreted, in a literal and metaphorical way, in two analyzed narcoseries: la reina del sur and camelia la texana. notwithstanding, the real subversive act of these characters-in order to depart from gender prototypes-is their abilities to analyze and decide. they, rather than consider themselves as victims of their circumstances, assume their responsibility for the life that they have chosen and their violent acts.
gender_roles	young people live in an environment that sexualises them, particularly women, along traditional gender roles. this, in parallel with a silence about positive sexuality in policy development, means that sexual double standards prevail in young people 's lives. the aim of this study was to explore the discourses young women and men from two european countries, germany and england, draw on when making sense of sexual relationships and how these are steeped in the local cultural climate and messages. the study used q methodology and included 65 german and english young people between 16 and 19years of age. six accounts emerged: sex as responsible, intimate and shared experience; sex as joint fun; ideal versus reality; sex has to be responsible, consensual and shared; caring relationships offer the perfect context for fulfilling sex; and equality between partners. the importance of cultural context in the availability of specific dominant and alternative discourses is discussed with a focus on how this influences young people 's sense-making with regard to sexuality and sexual relationships. future directions for research are highlighted.
depression	this article explores socially withdrawn young finnish people on an internet forum who identify with the japanese hikikomori phenomenon. we aim to overcome the dualism between sociology and psychology found in earlier research by referring to pierre bourdieu, who provides insights into how individual choices are constructed in accordance with wider social settings. we focus on the individual level and everyday choices, but we suggest that psychological factors (anxiety, depression) can be seen as properties of social relations rather than as individual states of mind, as young adults have unequal access to valued resources. we scrutinise young people 's specific reasoning related to the social and psychological factors and contingent life events that influence their choice to withdraw. an experience of inadequacy, a feeling of failure and a lack of self-efficacy are common experiences in the data. this indicates that young adults who identify with the hikikomori phenomenon find external society demanding and consider themselves lacking resources such as education, social networks or the personality type that they see as valued in society and as essential to survival'. they also feel that they cannot control their life events, which may mean that they receive little help in their everyday lives.
depression	purpose/background: the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of quetiapine xr and lithium on actigraphy-measured circadian parameters in patients with bipolar ii depression. methods/procedures: this was an 8-week, open-label, prospective, randomized comparative study. the assessments included the 17-item hamilton depression rating scale score and actigraphic measures concerning the previous 7 days, collected at each visit (weeks 0 [baseline], 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8); the actigraphic data were analyzed with a cosinor analysis. findings/results: medication, time, and the interaction between medication and time were significantly associated with acrophase for the entire group (ps = 0.003, 0.020, and 0.042, respectively). more specifically, acrophase was significantly delayed at weeks 1 and 6 (ps = 0.004 and 0.039, respectively) in the quetiapine xr group. the f statistics significantly increased over time for the entire group (p < 0.001), and there was a significant increase in f statistics on weeks 4 and 6 in the quetiapine xr group (ps = 0.016 and 0.020, respectively) and on weeks 4 and 8 in the lithium group (ps = 0.001 and 0.016, respectively). in addition, scores on the 17-item hamilton depression rating scale were significantly associated with the f statistics during 8 weeks for the entire group (p = 0.008). implications/conclusions: both quetiapine xr and lithium affected several circadian parameters, including peak activity time and robustness of circadian rhythm, but exerted different effects on acrophase in patients with bipolar ii depression. in particular, clinical depressive symptoms were associated with robustness of circadian rhythm during the course of the 8-week treatment.
depression	worry is a common phenotype in both psychiatric patients and the normal population. worry can be seen as a covert behavior with primary function to avoid aversive emotional experiences. our research group has developed a treatment protocol based on an operant model of worry, where we use exposure -based strategies to extinguish the catastrophic worry thoughts. the aim of this study was to test this treatment delivered via the internet in a large-scale randomized controlled trial. we randomized 140 high-worriers [pswq]) to either internet-based extinction therapy (ibet) or to a waiting-list condition (wl). results showed that ibet was superior to wl with an overall large between-group effect size of d 1.39 (95% confidence interval [1.04,1.73]) on the pswq. in the ibet group, 58% were classified as responders. the corresponding figure for wl participants was 7%. ibet was also superior to the wl on secondary outcome measures of anxiety, depression, meta-cognitions, cognitive avoidance, and quality of life. overall treatment results were maintained for the ibet group at 4- and 12-month follow-up. the results from this trial are encouraging as they indicate that worry can be targeted with an accessible and novel intervention for worry. replication trials with active control group are needed.
depression	psychosocial conditions such as depression, intimate partner violence (ipv), and history of childhood sexual abuse (csa) have been associated with poor hiv-related outcomes. in india, which has the third largest hiv epidemic in the world, little is understood about the impact of psychosocial conditions on people living with hiv (plhiv). we aimed to understand the prevalence and correlates of psychosocial conditions among plhiv entering into hiv care at the y.r. gaitonde centre for aids research and education in chennai, india. thirteen questions were added to the standard voluntary counseling and testing questionnaire, including the patient health questionnaire-9 (a depression scale) and questions assessing for csa and ipv. we fitted logistic regression models, stratified by gender, with psychosocial condition as the outcome of interest and substance use variables and socio-demographic variables as the correlates of interest. three hundred and eighty-three persons were enrolled into the study; of these, 253 (66%) tested positive for hiv, including 149 men and 104 women, and were included in the models. more than one-quarter (28%) of the men and 19% of the women reported at least one psychosocial condition (probable depression, csa, or ipv). in adjusted analysis, current alcohol use was associated with greater than two times higher odds of a psychosocial condition (adjusted odds ratio=2.24, 95% ci, 1.04-4.85) among men. in conclusion, we estimated the prevalence of probable depression, csa, and ipv among plhiv presenting for hiv care in southern india and found that, among male plhiv, alcohol use was associated with a markedly higher odds of reporting a psychosocial condition. further study is needed to characterize alcohol use among male plhiv and the possible deleterious impact of psychosocial conditions and alcohol use on hiv-related outcomes in india.
depression	objective: the aim of this study was to examine physical and heart rhythm management device malfunction complications after participating in a cardiac rehabilitation program intervention compared with usual care. method: this study was a clinical trial of 100 patients. after randomization, intervention group patients received 8 cardiac rehabilitation program sessions for 8 weeks and follow-up phone calls. each session consisted of exercise training, education, and psychological interventions. data were collected at 3 points in both groups-baseline and 8 and 12 weeks after the first day of the intervention-using a researcher-designed case report form. data were analyzed using descriptive and nonparametric tests. results: of the participants, 59% were men, and the sample was aged 40 to 60 years. at the 8- to 12-week follow-up, there were less physical complications among the cardiac rehabilitation group (p < .001) and no between-group differences in complications related to device malfunction. by heart rhythm device type, cardiac rehabilitation had the greatest efficacy in reducing physical complications in patients with cardioverter/defibrillators. conclusions: cardiac rehabilitation reduced physical complications in patients with cardiac rhythm management devices, especially in patients with cardioverter/defibrillators. cardiac clinical nurse specialists should recommend rehabilitation programs as part of postimplantation rhythm device treatment to decrease the risk of physical complications.
social_cognition	social cognitive skills are indispensable for successful communication with others. substantial research has determined deficits in these abilities in patients with mental disorders. in neurobiological development and continuing into adulthood, cross-cultural differences in social cognition have been demonstrated. moreover, symptomatic patterns in mental disorders may vary according to the cultural background of an individual. cross-cultural studies can thus help in understanding underlying (biological) mechanisms and factors that influence behavior in health and disease. in addition, studies that apply novel paradigms assessing the impact of culture on cognition may benefit and advance neuroscience research. in this review, the authors give an overview of cross-cultural research in the field of social cognition in health and in mental disorders and provide an outlook on future research directions, taking a neuroscience perspective.
social_cognition	dopamine levels in the brain influence emotional experiences and empathic responses to others' misfortune. inspired by roles of catechol-o-methyltransferase (comt) in dopamine degradation and the link between moral judgment and empathic responses, this study investigated to what extent the va1158met polymorphism of comtgene contributes to individual differences in moral permissibility and empathic dispositions. one thousand two hundred and seventy-two chinese han college students, who were differentiated with the comt va1158met (rs4680) polymorphism, rated permissibility of harm in moral dilemmas and scored their empathic dispositions with interpersonal reactivity index. the results showed a significant association between comtva1158met and the moral permissibility of committing harm. individuals with the val/val genotype, which is associated with lower levels of dopamine, endorsed impersonal harm as more impermissible than those with the val/met and met/met genotypes. results also showed that individuals with the val/val genotype showed higher empathic concern for others' misfortune. the findings provide the first evidence for the link between comt gene and the moral permissibility, highlighting the roles of dopamine in social cognition. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
social_cognition	perceptual systems must rapidly generate accurate representations of the world from sensory inputs that are corrupted by internal and external noise. we can typically obtain more veridical representations by integrating information from multiple channels, but this integration can lead to biases when inputs are, in fact, not from the same source. although a considerable amount is known about how different sources of information are combined to influence what we perceive, it is not known whether temporal features are combined. it is vital to address this question given the divergent predictions made by different models of cue combination and time perception concerning the plausibility of cross-modal temporal integration, and the implications that such integration would have for research programs in action control and social cognition. here we present four experiments investigating the influence of movement duration on the perceived duration of an auditory tone. participants either explicitly (experiments 1-2) or implicitly (experiments 3-4) produced hand movements of shorter or longer durations, while judging the duration of a concurrently presented tone (500-950 ms in duration). across all experiments, judgments of tone duration were attracted toward the duration of executed movements (i.e., tones were perceived to be longer when executing a movement of longer duration). our results demonstrate that temporal information associated with movement biases perceived auditory duration, placing important constraints on theories modeling cue integration for state estimation, as well as models of time perception, action control and social cognition.
social_cognition	two studies examined the development of constructivist theory of mind (tom) during late childhood and early adolescence. in study 1, a new measure was developed to assess participants' understanding of the interpretive and constructive processes embedded in memory, comprehension, attention, comparison, planning, and inference. using this measure, study 2 tested a mediational model in which prosocial reasoning about conflict mediated the relation between constructivist tom and behavior problems in high school. results showed that the onset of constructivist tom occurs between late childhood and early adolescence and that adolescents who have more advanced constructivist tom have more prosocial reasoning about conflict, which in turn mediated the relation with fewer serious behavior problems in high school, after controlling for academic performance and sex. in both studies, girls showed more advanced constructivist tom than boys in high school. (c) 2016 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
social_cognition	psychosocial rehabilitation programs received mental health professional support in addition to traditional medication therapy. many psychosocial programs were developed since the 1990s, including cognitive remediation therapy. in this review, we focus on cognitive remediation therapy in korea since the 1990s. we review several cognitive rehabilitation programs developed in korea and their outcome studies and suggest future research directions and prospects. we reviewed cognitive rehabilitation programs including social cognitive training as well as more recent forms of computerized cognitive rehabilitation. although there are differences in cognitive domains by training targets, almost all neurocognitive remediation trainings in korea have beneficial effects on early visual processing, various attention types, and executive function. future studies need to investigate the mechanisms and various mediators underlying the relationships between cognitive functions and functional outcomes. with more comprehensive cognitive and social cognitive programs, we can enhance both cognition and functional outcomes of the patients with schizophrenia. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
seasonal_affective_disorder	background: distinguishing pediatric bipolar disorder (bd) from attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) can be challenging. hyperactivity is a core feature of both disorders, but severely disturbed sleep and circadian dysregulation are more characteristic of bd, at least in adults. we tested the hypothesis that objective measures of activity, sleep, and circadian rhythms would help differentiate pediatric subjects with bd from adhd and typically developing controls. methods: unmedicated youths (n = 155, 97 males, age 5-18) were diagnosed using dsm-iv criteria with kiddie-sads pl/e. bd youths (n = 48) were compared to typically developing controls (n = 42) and children with adhd (n = 44) or adhd plus comorbid depressive disorders (n = 21). three-to-five days of minute-to-minute belt-worn actigraph data (ambulatory monitoring inc.), collected during the school week, were processed to yield 28 metrics per subject, and assessed for group differences with analysis of covariance. cross-validated machine learning algorithms were used to determine the predictive accuracy of a four-parameter model, with measures reflecting sleep, hyperactivity, and circadian dysregulation, plus indic 's bipolar vulnerability index (vi). results: there were prominent group differences in several activity measures, notably mean 5 lowest hours of activity, skewness of diurnal activity, relative circadian amplitude, and vi. a predictive support vector machine model discriminated bipolar from non-bipolar with mean accuracy of 83.1 +/- 5.4%, roc area of 0.781 +/- 0.071, kappa of 0.587 +/- 0.136, specificity of 91.7 +/- 5.3%, and sensitivity of 64.4 +/- 13.6%. conclusions: objective measures of sleep, circadian rhythmicity, and hyperactivity were abnormal in bd. wearable sensor technology may provide bio-behavioral markers that can help differentiate children with bd from adhd and healthy controls.
seasonal_affective_disorder	background: to assess the relationship between hours of sunlight and railway suicide attempts, 3-7 days before these attempts. methods: all railway suicide attempts causing railway suspensions or delays of 30 min or more between 2002 and 2006. we used a linear probability model to assess this relationship. this study was conducted at tokyo, kanagawa, and osaka prefectures in japan. data were collected from the railway delay incident database of the japanese railway technical research institute and public weather database of the japan meteorological agency, results: about 971 railway suicides attempts occurred between 2002 and 2006 in tokyo, kanagawa, and osaka. less sunlight in the 7 days leading up to the railway suicide attempts was associated with a higher proportion of attempts (p=0.0243). sunlight over the 3 days before an attempt had a similar trend (p=0.0888). no difference was found in sunlight hours between the clays with (median: 5.6 [iqr: 1.1-8.8]) and without (median: 5.7 [iqr: 1.0-8.9]) railway suicide attempts in the evening. finally, there was no apparent correlation between the railway suicide attempts and the monthly average sunlight hours of the attempted month or those of a month before. limitations: railway suicides were not the main suicidal methods in japan, conclusions: we observed an increased proportion of railway suicide attempts after several days without sunlight. light exposure (blue light or bright white light) in trains may be useful in reducing railway suicides, especially when consecutive days without sunshine are forecasted. (c) 2013 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
seasonal_affective_disorder	studies which attribute markets' seasonality to sentiment assume that seasonal affective disorder (sad) creates seasonal fluctuations in risk-aversion which, in turn, affects prices. employing the variance risk premium (vp), we directly test for seasonality in risk-aversion. we find significant seasonality in the vp which is not explained by exogenous events, market-realized variance and returns and major macroeconomic variables. we use the number of people who actively suffer from sad to show that consistent with the sad hypothesis vp and sad are significantly positively correlated. international comparison reveals significant positive association between the magnitude of seasonally and the prevalence of sad.
seasonal_affective_disorder	an extensive body of research suggests the spontaneous eye blink rate (ebr) is a non-invasive indirect marker of central dopamine (da) function, with higher ebr predicting higher da function. in the present review we provide a comprehensive overview of this literature. we broadly divide the available research in studies that aim to disentangle the dopaminergic underpinnings of ebr, investigate its utility in diagnosis of da-related disorders and responsivity to drug treatment, and, lastly, investigate ebr as predictor of individual differences in da-related cognitive performance. we conclude (i) ebr can reflect both da receptor subtype d1 and d2 activity, although baseline ebr might be most strongly related to the latter, (ii) ebr can predict hypo- and hyperdopaminergic activity as well as normalization of this activity following treatment, and (iii) ebr can reliably predict individual differences in performance on many cognitive tasks, in particular those related to reward-driven behavior and cognitive flexibility. in sum, this review establishes ebr as a useful predictor of da in a wide variety of contexts. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
seasonal_affective_disorder	objectives: melatonin levels decrease physiologically with age, and possibly with the transition to menopause. the plausible influence of hormone therapy (ht) on melatonin is poorly understood. the aim of this randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial was to investigate the effect of ht administration on serum melatonin concentrations in late premenopausal and postmenopausal women. study design: analyses were carried out among 17 late premenopausal and 18 postmenopausal healthy women who participated in a prospective ht study in finland. serum melatonin was sampled at 20-min (21:00-24:00 h; 06:00-09:00 h) and 1-h (24:00-06:00 h) intervals at baseline and after 6 months with ht or placebo. main outcome measures: melatonin levels and secretion profile after 6 months of ht compared to placebo. results: mean melatonin levels, mean melatonin exposure level (area under curve, auc) and mean duration of melatonin secretion did not differ after 6 months with ht vs. placebo, irrespectively of the reproductive state. however, in postmenopausal women the melatonin peak time (acrophase) was delayed by 2.4 h (2 h 21 min) on average after 6 months with ht vs. placebo (p<0.05). no interaction between time and group was detected when melatonin level was modelled before or after treatment. conclusions: administration of ht to postmenopausal women alters melatonin peak time, but not melatonin levels. further research on larger clinical samples is needed to better understand the effects of ht on melatonin profile. (c) 2014 elsevier ireland ltd. all rights reserved.
person_perception	previous research has demonstrated that athletes displaying dominant nonverbal behavior (nvb) are perceived to possess more favorable performance characteristics and are expected to perform better than athletes showing submissive nvb. in the present study we used point light videos of a baseball pitcher displaying dominant, submissive, and neutral nvbs to show that this effect is mainly driven by the submissive condition. no difference between the neutral and the dominant condition was evident, suggesting that it is more important to avoid displaying submissive nvb instead of showing dominant nvb as neutral nvb already seems to lead to the impression that the athlete can handle the situation. the results show that nvbs expressing dominance and submissiveness are important early cues that affect the impression formation process in sport and the expectancy of success of the athlete observing this nvb. in addition, the results indicate, that further information about the ability level of the athlete might diminish this effect. performance consequences of the effect of nvb are discussed.
person_perception	clinicians make a variety of assessments about their clients, from judging personality traits to making diagnoses, and a variety of methods are available to do so, ranging from observations to structured interviews. a large body of work demonstrates that from a brief glimpse of another 's nonverbal behavior, a variety of traits and inner states can be accurately perceived. additionally, from these ""thin slices"" of behavior, even future outcomes can be predicted with some accuracy. certain clinical disorders such as parkinson 's disease and facial paralysis disrupt nonverbal behavior and may impair clinicians' ability to make accurate judgments. in certain contexts, personality disorders, anxiety, depression, and suicide attempts and outcomes can be detected from others' nonverbal behavior. additionally, thin slices can predict psychological adjustment to divorce, bereavement, sexual abuse, and wellbeing throughout life. thus, for certain traits and disorders, judgments from a thin slice could provide a complementary tool for the clinician 's toolbox.
person_perception	human faces, and more specifically the eyes, play a crucial role in social and nonverbal communication because they signal valuable information about others. it is therefore surprising that few studies have investigated the impact of intergroup contexts and motivations on attention to the eyes of ingroup and outgroup members. four experiments investigated differences in eye gaze to racial and novel ingroups using eye tracker technology. whereas studies 1 and 3 demonstrated that white participants attended more to the eyes of white compared to black targets, study 2 showed a similar pattern of attention to the eyes of novel ingroup and outgroup faces. studies 3 and 4 also provided new evidence that eye gaze is flexible and can be meaningfully influenced by current motivations. specifically, instructions to individuate specific social categories increased attention to the eyes of target group members. furthermore, the latter experiments demonstrated that preferential attention to the eyes of ingroup members predicted important intergroup biases such as recognition of ingroup over outgroup faces (i.e., the own-race bias; study 3) and willingness to interact with outgroup members (study 4). the implication of these findings for general theorizing on face perception, individuation processes, and intergroup relations are discussed.
person_perception	the 3-stage model of social inference posits that people categorize behaviors and characterize actors or situations effortlessly, but they correct these characterizations with additional information effortfully. the current article tests this model using developmental data, assuming that the less cognitively demanding processes in the model (i.e., categorization, characterization) should appear earlier in development, whereas the more demanding correction process should not appear until later in development. using 2 different paradigms, studies 1 and 3 found that younger children failed to take situational information into account while characterizing the actor. study 2 found that younger children failed to take dispositional information into account while characterizing the situation. in contrast, in these 3 studies, older children used the available information to correct their characterizations of the actors and of the situations. consistent with the 3-stage model, during elementary school years, children start to integrate additional information when drawing explicit social inferences. in study 4, children of all age levels used a prior expectancy to draw a dispositional inference, ignoring situational information, suggesting that characterizations based on prior expectancies about an actor are a highly efficient process, not contemplated by the model. the 4 studies together illustrate how developmental data can be valuably used to test adult socio-cognitive models, to extend their validity, or to simply further inform those models.
person_perception	the current study investigated ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmpfc) activity during impression formation of individuals varying on distinct dimensions of social status. in a block-design functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) experiment, participants were presented with photographs of faces paired with a colored background indicating their lower, same, or higher financial status, or lower, same, or higher moral status. participants were asked to form an impression of the targets, but were not instructed to explicitly evaluate them based on social status. building on previous findings (cloutier, ambady, meagher, & gabrieli, 2012), a region of interest analysis revealed the interaction of status dimension and level in vmpfc, finding not only preferential response to targets with higher compared to lower moral status as previously demonstrated, but also greater response to targets with lower compared to higher financial status. the implications of these results are discussed with an emphasis towards better understanding the impact of social status on social cognition and uncovering the neural substrates of person evaluation. (c) 2014 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
media_violence	there is a large amount of variables that need to be taken into account when studying the effects of violent content in digital games; one of those being difficulty. in the current study participants played a modified first-person shooter in one of four different conditions, with either high or low difficulty and high or low violent game content. we assessed number of kills and number of deaths as game performance. neither the difficulty nor the displayed violence had an effect on psychophysiological arousal during play, post-game aggressive cognitions, nor aggressive behavior. thus, this study corroborates previous research indicating that violence in games does not substantially influence human behavior or experience, and other game characteristics deserve more attention in game effects studies. in addition, findings showed that challenge manipulated by game difficulty is of main importance for post-game emotions: number of deaths predicted positive affect, but only in the low difficulty condition while number of kills was a positive predictor for positive affect and a negative predictor for negative affect. (c) 2015 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
media_violence	this study consists of the validation of a scale for the analysis of violent behavior in adolescents. it is a cross-sectional observational study. a total of 437 adolescent students from public and private schools in the city of recife in pernambuco state participated in the study by responding to a questionnaire. semantic and content validation was performed, followed by dimensionality, reliability, discriminant, trust and convergent analysis. the extraction method was principal component analysis with varimax rotation and kaiser normalization. the analysis resulted in a scale for assessment of aggressive behavior of teenagers with 39 items. seven factors were selected and cronbach 's total alpha was 0.830. discriminant analysis revealed groups of items that distinguish subjects between high and low level of violent behavior and between groups of items revealed a positive correlation among 17 items and the reliability of the instrument was confirmed in the retest. the scale revealed evidence of validity as a tool for assessing violent behavior among adolescents.
media_violence	cognitive, emotional, and arousal responses to violent games play a central role in theoretical explanations of how violent media may affect aggression. however, existing research has focused on a relatively narrow range of responses to violent games in experimental settings. this limits our understanding of whether and how violent game-induced responses relate to aggression in real life. to address these gaps, this study investigated how cognitive effort, emotional valence, and arousal in response to violent games relate to early adolescents' aggression, both cross-sectionally and over a period of one year. in addition, we investigated how a social context variable (i.e., family conflict) predicts these responses to violent games and subsequent aggression. a sample of 448 early adolescents (10-14 years) completed survey questions and media diaries that measured their responses to violent games. results showed that, outside the lab, a positive cross-sectional relationship between violent game-induced arousal and aggression exists. in addition, arousal mediated the relationship between family conflict and aggression. study findings justify increased research attention to media responses outside the lab and a need for further theoretical and methodological refinement. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
media_violence	the slasher horror film has been deplored based on claims that it depicts eroticized violence against predominately female characters as punishment for sexual activities. to test this assertion, a quantitative content analysis was conducted to examine the extent to which gender differences are evident in the association between character survival and engagement in sexual activities. information pertaining to gender, engagement in sexual activities, and survival was coded for film characters from a simple random sample of 50 english-language, north american slasher films released between 1960 and 2009. results indicated that sexual female characters were less likely to survive and had significantly longer death scenes as compared to those female characters who did not engage in sexual behaviors.
media_violence	this study applied social-cognitive models of aggression in order to examine relations between video game use and aggressive tendencies and biases in social information processing. to this end, 499 secondary school students (aged 12-16) completed a survey on two occasions one year apart. hierarchical regression analysis probed media effects and selection effects and included relevant contextual variables (parental monitoring of media consumption, impulsivity, and victimization). results revealed that it was not the consumption of violent video games but rather an uncontrolled pattern of video game use that was associated with increasing aggressive tendencies. this increase was partly mediated by a hostile attribution bias in social information processing. the influence of aggressive tendencies on later video game consumption was also examined (selection path). adolescents with aggressive traits intensified their video game behavior only in terms of their uncontrolled video game use. this was found even after controlling for sensation seeking and parental media control.
schizophrenia	all currently approved drugs for schizophrenia work mainly by dopaminergic antagonism. while they are efficacious for psychotic symptoms, their efficacy is limited for negative symptoms and cognitive deficits which underlie the substantive disability in this illness. recent insights into the biological basis of schizophrenia, especially in relation to non-dopaminergic mechanisms, have raised the efforts to find novel and effective drug targets, though with relatively little success thus far. potential impediments to novel drug discovery include the continued use of symptom based disease definitions which leads to etiological and pathophysiological heterogeneity, lack of valid preclinical models for drug testing, and design limitations in clinical trials. these roadblocks can be addressed by (i) characterizing trans-diagnostic, translational pathophysiological dimensions as potential treatment targets, (ii) efficiency, accountability and, transparency in approaches to the clinical trials process, and (iii) leveraging recent advances in genetics and in vitro phenotypes. accomplishing these goals is urgent given the significant unmet needs in the pharmacological treatment of schizophrenia. as this happens, it is imperative that clinicians employ optimal dosing, measurement-based care, and other best practices in utilizing existing treatments to optimize outcomes for their patients today. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
schizophrenia	auditory hyper-reactivity is a common sensory-perceptual abnormality that interrupts behavioral adaptations in autism spectrum disorders (asd). recently, prolonged acoustic startle response (asr) latency and hyper-reactivity to weak acoustic stimuli were reported in children with asd. indexes of asr and its modulation are known to be stable biological markers for translational research in the adult population. however, little is known about the stability of these indexes in children. thus, the objective of our study was to investigate the stability of neurophysiological asr indexes in children with asd and typical development (td). participants included 12 children with asd and 24 with td. mean startle magnitudes to acoustic stimuli presented at 65-105 db in increments of 10 db were analyzed. average peak startle latency (psl), asr modulation of habituation, and prepulse inhibition were also analyzed. these startle measures were examined after a follow-up period of 15.7 +/- 5.1 months from baseline. at both baseline and in the follow-up period, children with asd had significantly greater startle magnitudes to weak stimuli of 65-85 db and more prolonged psl compared with controls. intraclass correlation coefficients for these asr measures between both periods were 0.499-0.705. none of the asr measures differed significantly between the two periods. our results suggest that prolonged psl and greater startle magnitudes to weak stimuli in children with asd might serve as moderately stable neurophysiological indexes of asd. autism res2016. (c) 2016 international society for autism research, wiley periodicals, inc. autism res 2017, 10: 673-679. (c) 2016 international society for autism research, wiley periodicals, inc.
schizophrenia	this study investigated the relationship between childhood trauma, irritability, and emotion recognition, in schizophrenia patients during a psychotic break. thirty-six schizophrenia inpatients and 36 healthy controls were assessed with the irritability questionnaire (irq) and two facial emotion recognition tasks, the emotion discrimination test (edt) and emotion identification test (eit). patients were further assessed with the structured clinical interview for dsm ili-r axis ii disorders (scid-ii), the positive and negative symptom scale (panss), and the childhood trauma questionnaire-28 (ctq-28). edt and eit performance was significantly impaired in patients compared to healthy controls. furthermore, patients tended to misidentify sad, surprised, or angry faces as showing fear, and this misidentification correlated with the patients' irritability. childhood adversity increased irritability both directly and indirectly through emotion misidentification.
schizophrenia	background: mental health-related stigma is a major public health issue, and is an obstacle to the possibility for successful treatment, recovery, and reintegration.aim: to examine attitudes towards mental illness among employees in the social services.methods: the study design was part of a large randomized trial, and data presented in this study are baseline data from this trial. respondents completed a baseline questionnaire to assess the respondents' attitudes.results: a significant difference was found between employees' personal attitudes towards depression and schizophrenia. the same significant difference was found in the employees' perceived attitudes. furthermore, a significant difference was found between the employees' personal and perceived attitudes. a significant difference was found between the respondents wish for social distance towards depression and schizophrenia in all cases, except regarding the willingness to provide a job at one 's own workplace.conclusion: employees in the social services are comparable to the general public concerning attitudes towards mental illness.implications: the results indicate that the employees in social services could have great use of gaining more knowledge about mental illness and ways in which to recognize a mental illness, in order to be able to offer the right kind of help and reduce the treatment gap concerning people suffering from mental illness.
schizophrenia	objective: research on crime victimisation in the mentally ill has focused on middle aged cohorts with long-standing illness and functional disability. the rates and correlates of victimisation in young cohorts is largely unknown. methods: participants (n=776) were aged 12-25 years attending headspace centres in australia, who consented to a clinical interview and provided self-reported data regarding lifetime victimisation. results: a quarter of the sample (24.5%) reported crime victimisation, including 18.5% who experienced violent victimisation (mainly physical or sexual assault) and 14.1% non-violent crime. both forms of victimisation were associated with illicit substance use, sexual orientation, and young adult age, while male gender was specifically associated with non-violent victimisation. participants who reported violent victimisation were significantly more impaired both functionally and clinically than those reporting non-violent victimisation or no victimisation. conclusions: young people with mental ill-health are vulnerable to criminal victimisation, particularly violent assaults, although the lifetime rates of victimisation are substantially lower than those observed in older cohorts with serious mental illness. effective, early intervention to address modifiable factors may reduce the risk of further victimisation.
