prenatal_development	the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary supplementation with 0.35% l-leucine on redox status and gene abundance relating to mitochondrial biogenesis and function in the jejunum of intrauterine growth-retarded (iugr) piglets during early weaning period. according to a 2x2 factorial arrangement, 16 iugr and 16 normal body weight (nbw) piglets were fed a basal diet without l-leucine supplementation or a basal diet plus 0.35% l-leucine supplementation from the age of 14 to 35d. the results showed that compared with nbw piglets, iugr piglets had a lower (p<0.05) jejunal dna concentration, a reduced (p<0.05) manganese superoxide dismutase (mnsod) and total antioxidant capability (t-aoc) activities and mitochondrial dna content in the jejunum. leucine supplementation increased (p<0.05) mnsod and t-aoc activities and decreased (p<0.05) the malondialdehyde content in the jejunum of iugr piglets. the mrna gene abundance of nuclear respiratory factor-1 (nrf1), mitochondrial transcription factor a (tfam), atp synthase (atps), cytochrome c oxidase v (ccox v), cytochrome c and glucokinase in the jejunum of iugr piglets was reduced (p<0.05) compared with nbw piglets. however, nrf1, peroxisome proliferation-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha, tfam, atps and ccox i mrna gene abundance in the jejunum of iugr piglets were increased (p<0.05) by diets supplemented with leucine. these data indicate that leucine supplementation has therapeutic potential for attenuating intestinal oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in iugr piglets during the early period of life via increasing enzyme activities and up-regulating mrna gene abundance.
attention	we demonstrate that the notion of a family 'constitution' (self-enforcing, renegotiation-proof norm) requiring adults to provide attention for their elderly parents carries over from a world where identical individuals reproduce asexually, to one where individuals differentiated by sex and preferences marry, have children and bargain over the allocation of domestic resources. in this heterogenous world, couples are sorted by their preferences. if a couple 's common preferences satisfy a certain condition, the couple have an interest in instilling those preferences into their children. policies are generally nonneutral. in particular, wage redistribution may raise, and compulsory education will reduce, the share of the adult population that is governed by family constitutions, and thus the share of the elderly population who receive attention from their children.
eating_disorders	anorexia nervosa (an) is an eating disorder, mainly affecting women, with a lifetime prevalence of about 1%, that can run a chronic course. while an effective pharmacotherapy is lacking, it is hypothesized that the progesterone and type ii glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone (ru486) might be useful, as it is well known that the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis (hpa) is activated in an. even if secondary to the eating disorder, an active hpa axis may contribute to maintaining the neuroendocrine, emotional and behavioral effects observed in an. more specifically, it is suggested that the hpa axis interacts with limbic structures, including the insular and prefrontal cortices, to uphold the changes in interoceptive and emotional awareness seen in an. as such, it is proposed that mifepristone (ru486) reverses these effects by acting on these limbic regions. in conclusion, the theoretical efficacy of mifepristone (ru486) in improving symptoms of an should be tested in randomized clinical trials. (c) 2016 elsevier inc all rights reserved.
borderline_personality_disorder	affective instability, conceptualized as fluctuations in mood over time, has been related to ill-health and psychopathology. in this study, we examined the role of affective instability on daily pain outcomes in 70 patients with chronic pain (m-age = 49.7 years; 46 females) using an end-of-day diary. during a baseline phase, patients completed self-reported questionnaires of pain severity, pain duration, disability, depression, and anxiety. during a subsequent diary phase, patients filled out an electronic end-of-day diary over 14 consecutive days assessing daily levels of pain severity, disability, cognitive complaints, negative affect (na) and positive affect. affective instability was operationalized as the mean square of successive differences in daily mood (separately for na and positive affect), which takes into account the size of affective changes over consecutive days. results indicated that na instability was positively associated with daily disability, beyond the effects of daily pain severity. furthermore, na instability moderated the relationship between daily pain severity and daily disability and the relationship between daily pain severity and daily cognitive complaints. positive affect instability, however, showed to be unrelated to all outcomes. current findings extend previous results and reveal the putative role of affective instability on pain-related outcomes and may yield important clinical implications. indeed, they suggest that targeting na instability by improving emotion regulation skills may be a strategy to diminish disability and cognitive complaints in patients with chronic pain.
prosocial_behavior	in germany, high prevalence rates for problematic alcohol use and problematic internet use in adolescents were reported. the objective of the present study was to identify psychopathological factors associated with these two behavior patterns. to our knowledge, this is the first investigation assessing psychopathological factors for both problematic alcohol and problematic internet use in the same sample of adolescents. we surveyed a sample of 1444 adolescents in germany regarding problematic alcohol use, problematic internet use, psychopathology and psychological well-being. we conducted binary logistic regression analyses. 5.6% of the sample showed problematic alcohol use, 4.8% problematic internet use, and 0.8% both problematic alcohol and problematic internet use. problematic alcohol use was higher in adolescents with problematic internet use compared to those without problematic internet use. conduct problems and depressive symptoms were statistically significant associated with both problematic alcohol and problematic internet use. prosocial behavior was related to problematic internet use. male gender and less peer problems were associated with problematic alcohol use. for the first time associations between adolescent problematic alcohol and problematic internet use due to common psychopathological factors were identified. however, in addition to shared factors, we found also specific psychopathological correlates associated with these two behavior patterns. (c) 2016 elsevier ireland ltd. all rights reserved.
false_memories	false memories commonly activate the anterior/dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (a/dlpfc) and the hippocampus. these regions are assumed to work in concert during false memories, which would predict a positive correlation between the magnitudes of activity in these regions across participants. however, the a/dlpfc may also inhibit the hippocampus, which would predict a negative correlation between the magnitudes of activity in these regions. in the present functional magnetic resonance imaging (fmri) study, during encoding, participants viewed abstract shapes in the left or right visual field. during retrieval, participants classified each old shape as previously in the left or right visual field followed by an unsure-sure-very sure confidence rating. the contrast of left-hits and left-misses produced two activations in the hippocampus and three activations in the left a/dlpfc. for each participant, activity associated with false memories (right-left-very sure responses) from the two hippocampal regions was plotted as a function of activity in each a/dlpfc region. across participants, for one region in the left anterior prefrontal cortex, there was a negative correlation between the magnitudes of activity in this region and the hippocampus. this suggests that the anterior prefrontal cortex might inhibit the hippocampus during false memories and that participants engage either the anterior prefrontal cortex or the hippocampus during false memories.
problem-solving	there is growing interest in the description of short-lived patterns in the spatiotemporal cortical activity monitored via neuroimaging. most traditional analysis methods, designed to estimate relatively long-term brain dynamics, are not always appropriate to capture these patterns. here we introduce a novel data-driven approach for detecting short-lived fmri brain activity patterns. exploiting density peak clustering (rodriguez and laio [2014]), our approach reveals well localized clusters by identifying and grouping together voxels whose time-series are similar, irrespective of their brain location, even when very short time windows (similar to 10 volumes) are used. the method, which we call coherence density peak clustering (cdpc), is first tested on simulated data and compared with a standard unsupervised approach for fmri analysis, independent component analysis (ica). cdpc identifies activated voxels with essentially no false-positives and proves more reliable than ica, which is troubled by a number of false positives comparable to that of true positives. the reliability of the method is demonstrated on real fmri data from a simple motor task, containing brief iterations of the same movement. the clusters identified are found in regions expected to be involved in the task, and repeat synchronously with the paradigm. the methodology proposed is especially suitable for the study of short-time brain dynamics and single trial experiments, where the event or task of interest cannot be repeated for the same subject, as happens, for instance, in problem-solving, learning and decision-making. a gui implementation of our method is available for download at https://github.com/micheleallegra/cdpc. (c) 2016 wiley periodicals, inc.
prejudice	existing studies have found that restaurant servers sometimes deliver service that is informed by their customers' race. however, we know considerably less about the causes underlying such discriminatory behaviors within the restaurant context. in this study, we advance this literature by analyzing data derived from a survey of restaurant servers (n = 195) to assess the effects of working in a racialized workplace environment, characterized by racist and stereotypical discourse, on servers' reports of providing race-based service. our findings reveal a strong statistically significant positive relationship between observing racialized workplace discourse and servers' self-professed discriminatory behaviors. furthermore, we find that these effects are not mediated or moderated by servers' willingness to participate in the discursive spreading of racial stereotypes by discussing their customers' race with peers. we conclude by identifying suggestions that restaurant leaders might consider to reduce racial discrimination within the restaurant industry.
antisocial_personality_disorder	around half the inmates in prison institutions have antisocial personality disorder (aspd). a recent theory has proposed that a dysfunction of the endogenous opioid system (eos) underlies the neurobiology of borderline personality disorder (bpd). in the present theoretical paper, based on a comprehensive database and hand search of the relevant literature, this hypothesis is extended to aspd, which may be the predominant expression of eos dysfunction in men, while the same pathology underlies bpd in women. according to evidence from human and animal studies, the problematic behaviours of persons with antisocial, callous, or psychopathic traits may be seen as desperate, unconscious attempts to stimulate their deficient eos, which plays a key role in brain reward circuits. if the needs of this system are not being met, the affected persons experience dysphoric mood, discomfort, or irritability, and strive to increase binding of endogenous opioids to receptors by using the rewarding effects of aggression by exertion of physical or manipulative power on others, by abusing alcohol or substances that have the reward system as target, by creating an endorphin rush by self-harm, by increasing the frequency of their sexual contacts, or by impulsive actions and sensation seeking. symptoms associated with aspd can be treated with opioid antagonists like naltrexone, naloxone, or nalmefene. copyright (c) 2015 john wiley & sons, ltd.
nonverbal_communication	the phenotype of cyclin-dependent kinase-like 5 (cdkl5) syndrome includes rett syndrome variant with early onset seizures, early onset epileptic encephalopathy; and severe developmental delay. autistic features have often been reported in literature, but detailed reports of the behavior of these individuals are lacking. we describe the clinical picture of a girl aged 15 years 9 months affected by cdkl5 syndrome, with special attention to the neurobehavioral phenotype. the evaluation showed, apart from a profound intellectual disability, the presence of atypical features of behavior, mainly in relating to people, in imitation, and in verbal and nonverbal communication, thus justifying the diagnosis of comorbid autism spectrum disorder. a formal assessment of the behavior, through appropriate tools, is necessary to choose the most appropriate rehabilitative intervention and to characterize in more detail the cdkl5 syndrome phenotype. we propose a testing protocol for the neurobehavioral assessment of these patients.
leadership	since the turn of the millennium, interest in collaborative and distributed conceptualisations of leadership has gathered momentum, particularly in education. during the same period, higher education institutions have been embedded in practices shaped by new public management. the resultant reconfiguration of structural arrangements within institutions has led to the existence of two staff groups, professional and academic. the former is often aligned to the rise in managerial practices over claimed academic collegial practices, thus creating conditions for a possible dualistic positioning with the two groups. distributed leadership and collaboration are claimed to be approaches that overcome this dualism, yet they may also be susceptible to maintaining this dual state and subtly reaffirm embedded interests and structures. as an alternative, a leadership-as-practice approach ontologically shifts the way in which sense is made of organisations. the practice-based model for understanding organisations presented in this paper offers a theoretical and applied framework that incorporates and also goes beyond collaborative and distributed leadership due to its association with practice theory.
child_abuse	adult victims of child physical abuse (cpa) are more likely to perpetrate intimate partner violence (ipv) than are nonvictims. however, not all cpa victims go on to become violent toward their partners, suggesting that other factors moderate risk for ipv perpetration. drawing on the background-situational model (riggs & o'leary, 1989, 1996), this study examines the independent and interactive effects of cpa history and negative affect arising during conflict with an intimate partner in predicting physical ipv perpetration. fifty-three heterosexual dating couples completed questionnaires assessing cpa history and perpetration of physical ipv. couples discussed the largest source of conflict in their relationship for 10 min. videos of these discussions were coded for negative affect. using an actor partner interdependence model approach to account for the dyadic interdependence of the data, findings revealed that at average levels of negative affect, cpa severity predicted greater ipv perpetration for both men and women. however, at average levels of cpa, negative affect during conflict was positively predictive of ipv perpetration for men only. findings further revealed an interaction such that for men, the positive association between cpa severity and ipv perpetration became stronger as their negative affect during conflict increased.
gender_roles	earlier evidence predominantly supports that women are more ethical than men. with the replication of such a hypothesis for testing, this study further examined whether feminine gender roles are a better predictor of ethical attitudes, ethical behaviors, and corporate responsibility values than the biological sex. four hundred ten management students from two technical institutes in eastern india participated in this study. along with the socio-demographic variables in the questionnaire, inventories were used to assess gender roles, ethical attitudes, ethical behaviors, and corporate responsibility values. the inventories had acceptable reliability and validity. the results suggested that when the confounding effects of age, caste, and rural/urban origin are controlled, women manifest higher corporate responsibility values than men, but they embody similar ethical attitudes and ethical behaviors as men. furthermore, the feminine roles of the participants were found to be more consistent, potent, and direct predictors of ethical attitudes, ethical behaviors, and corporate responsibility values than the biological sex. hence, individuals with feminine roles may be better suited for ethical responsibilities.
depression	this article explores socially withdrawn young finnish people on an internet forum who identify with the japanese hikikomori phenomenon. we aim to overcome the dualism between sociology and psychology found in earlier research by referring to pierre bourdieu, who provides insights into how individual choices are constructed in accordance with wider social settings. we focus on the individual level and everyday choices, but we suggest that psychological factors (anxiety, depression) can be seen as properties of social relations rather than as individual states of mind, as young adults have unequal access to valued resources. we scrutinise young people 's specific reasoning related to the social and psychological factors and contingent life events that influence their choice to withdraw. an experience of inadequacy, a feeling of failure and a lack of self-efficacy are common experiences in the data. this indicates that young adults who identify with the hikikomori phenomenon find external society demanding and consider themselves lacking resources such as education, social networks or the personality type that they see as valued in society and as essential to survival'. they also feel that they cannot control their life events, which may mean that they receive little help in their everyday lives.
social_cognition	social cognitive skills are indispensable for successful communication with others. substantial research has determined deficits in these abilities in patients with mental disorders. in neurobiological development and continuing into adulthood, cross-cultural differences in social cognition have been demonstrated. moreover, symptomatic patterns in mental disorders may vary according to the cultural background of an individual. cross-cultural studies can thus help in understanding underlying (biological) mechanisms and factors that influence behavior in health and disease. in addition, studies that apply novel paradigms assessing the impact of culture on cognition may benefit and advance neuroscience research. in this review, the authors give an overview of cross-cultural research in the field of social cognition in health and in mental disorders and provide an outlook on future research directions, taking a neuroscience perspective.
seasonal_affective_disorder	background: distinguishing pediatric bipolar disorder (bd) from attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) can be challenging. hyperactivity is a core feature of both disorders, but severely disturbed sleep and circadian dysregulation are more characteristic of bd, at least in adults. we tested the hypothesis that objective measures of activity, sleep, and circadian rhythms would help differentiate pediatric subjects with bd from adhd and typically developing controls. methods: unmedicated youths (n = 155, 97 males, age 5-18) were diagnosed using dsm-iv criteria with kiddie-sads pl/e. bd youths (n = 48) were compared to typically developing controls (n = 42) and children with adhd (n = 44) or adhd plus comorbid depressive disorders (n = 21). three-to-five days of minute-to-minute belt-worn actigraph data (ambulatory monitoring inc.), collected during the school week, were processed to yield 28 metrics per subject, and assessed for group differences with analysis of covariance. cross-validated machine learning algorithms were used to determine the predictive accuracy of a four-parameter model, with measures reflecting sleep, hyperactivity, and circadian dysregulation, plus indic 's bipolar vulnerability index (vi). results: there were prominent group differences in several activity measures, notably mean 5 lowest hours of activity, skewness of diurnal activity, relative circadian amplitude, and vi. a predictive support vector machine model discriminated bipolar from non-bipolar with mean accuracy of 83.1 +/- 5.4%, roc area of 0.781 +/- 0.071, kappa of 0.587 +/- 0.136, specificity of 91.7 +/- 5.3%, and sensitivity of 64.4 +/- 13.6%. conclusions: objective measures of sleep, circadian rhythmicity, and hyperactivity were abnormal in bd. wearable sensor technology may provide bio-behavioral markers that can help differentiate children with bd from adhd and healthy controls.
person_perception	previous research has demonstrated that athletes displaying dominant nonverbal behavior (nvb) are perceived to possess more favorable performance characteristics and are expected to perform better than athletes showing submissive nvb. in the present study we used point light videos of a baseball pitcher displaying dominant, submissive, and neutral nvbs to show that this effect is mainly driven by the submissive condition. no difference between the neutral and the dominant condition was evident, suggesting that it is more important to avoid displaying submissive nvb instead of showing dominant nvb as neutral nvb already seems to lead to the impression that the athlete can handle the situation. the results show that nvbs expressing dominance and submissiveness are important early cues that affect the impression formation process in sport and the expectancy of success of the athlete observing this nvb. in addition, the results indicate, that further information about the ability level of the athlete might diminish this effect. performance consequences of the effect of nvb are discussed.
media_violence	there is a large amount of variables that need to be taken into account when studying the effects of violent content in digital games; one of those being difficulty. in the current study participants played a modified first-person shooter in one of four different conditions, with either high or low difficulty and high or low violent game content. we assessed number of kills and number of deaths as game performance. neither the difficulty nor the displayed violence had an effect on psychophysiological arousal during play, post-game aggressive cognitions, nor aggressive behavior. thus, this study corroborates previous research indicating that violence in games does not substantially influence human behavior or experience, and other game characteristics deserve more attention in game effects studies. in addition, findings showed that challenge manipulated by game difficulty is of main importance for post-game emotions: number of deaths predicted positive affect, but only in the low difficulty condition while number of kills was a positive predictor for positive affect and a negative predictor for negative affect. (c) 2015 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
schizophrenia	all currently approved drugs for schizophrenia work mainly by dopaminergic antagonism. while they are efficacious for psychotic symptoms, their efficacy is limited for negative symptoms and cognitive deficits which underlie the substantive disability in this illness. recent insights into the biological basis of schizophrenia, especially in relation to non-dopaminergic mechanisms, have raised the efforts to find novel and effective drug targets, though with relatively little success thus far. potential impediments to novel drug discovery include the continued use of symptom based disease definitions which leads to etiological and pathophysiological heterogeneity, lack of valid preclinical models for drug testing, and design limitations in clinical trials. these roadblocks can be addressed by (i) characterizing trans-diagnostic, translational pathophysiological dimensions as potential treatment targets, (ii) efficiency, accountability and, transparency in approaches to the clinical trials process, and (iii) leveraging recent advances in genetics and in vitro phenotypes. accomplishing these goals is urgent given the significant unmet needs in the pharmacological treatment of schizophrenia. as this happens, it is imperative that clinicians employ optimal dosing, measurement-based care, and other best practices in utilizing existing treatments to optimize outcomes for their patients today. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
