label 16	PAKISTAN COTTON CROP SEEN RECORD 7.6 MLN BALES Pakistan is likely to produce a record 7.6 mln bales (375 lbs each) of cotton from the current 1986/87 crop, exceeding a target of 7.2 mln bales, Food and Agriculture Minister Mohammad Ibrahim Baluch said. He told a Pakistan Central Cotton Committee meeting here the present was the third consecutive poroduction record-setting year and said the momentum would be accelerated in the future, the official APP news agency reported. Baluch said indications were that Pakistan is to attain a record cotton production of 7.6 mln bales, compared to the 1985/86 crop of 7.2 mln bales which also represented the target earlier set by authorities for this year's production.  
label 16	CERTIFICATED COTTON STOCKS Certificated cotton stocks deliverable on the New York Cotton Exchange No 2 cotton futures contract as of April 8 were reported at 34,661 bales, down 421 bales from the previous day's figure. There were no bales awaiting review and 1,218 bales awaiting decertification.  
label 16	BRAZIL COTTON CROP LOWER -- USDA REPORT Brazil's 1986/87 cotton crop estimate has been reduced to 710,000 from 735,000 tonnes (lint basis), the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Sao Paulo said in a field report. The report, dated April 7, said the reduction is based on an expected smaller harvest in the center-south region. The center-south crop is now estimated at 550,000 tonnes -- 25,000 tonnes below the previous estimate. Hot, dry weather during part of January and excessive rains in some areas in February reduced yield prospects and may have affected quality, the report said. Nearly 60 pct of the crop has been harvested in Parana and slightly less in Sao Paulo, it said. Cotton entering gins is of fairly good quality, according to trade sources, it said.  
label 16	USDA ESTIMATES USSR COTTON CROP The U.S. Agriculture Department forecast the Soviet 1986/87 cotton crop at 11.20 mln bales (480-lbs net), vs 11.20 mln bales forecast last month. The department also estimated the 1985/86 Soviet cotton crop at 12.10 mln bales, vs 12.10 mln bales last month.  
label 16	COTTON SUPPLY/DEMAND BY COUNTRY -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department detailed world supply/demand data for major importers and exporters of cotton, by country, as follows, in mln 480-lb bales -- CHINA COTTON -- 1986/87           1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 16.00  18.30      19.40  19.80 Production  16.30  16.30      19.00  19.00 Imports         X      X          X      X Domes Use   21.00  17.50      19.50  17.50 Exports      2.30   2.50       2.90   2.90 End Stocks   9.05  14.55      16.00  18.30 X - Less than 5,000 bales PAKISTAN COTTON, in mln 480 bales -- 1986/87           1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks 1.07   1.07      1.05   1.05 Production   6.10   6.10      5.67   5.67 Imports         X      X         X      X Domestic Use 2.50   2.50      2.34   2.34 Exports      3.00   3.00      3.15   3.15 End Stocks   1.51   1.51      1.07   1.07 X - Less than 5,000 bales. USSR COTTON, in mln 480-lbs bales -- 1986/87            1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks  2.76   2.76       2.62   2.62 Production   11.20  11.20      12.10  12.10 Imports       1.00   1.00       0.65   0.65 Domestic Use  9.70   9.70       9.60   9.60 Exports       2.80   2.80       3.00   3.00 End Stocks    2.46   2.46       2.76   2.76 JAPAN COTTON, in mln 480-lbs bales -- 1986/87            1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stocks  0.52   0.52      0.61   0.61 Production     NIL    NIL       NIL    NIL Imports       3.10   3.10      3.05   3.05 Domestic Use  3.10   3.10      3.15   3.15 Exports        NIL    NIL       NIL    NIL End Stocks    0.52   0.52      0.52   0.52  
label 16	WORLD MARKET PRICE FOR UPLAND COTTON - USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department announced the prevailing world market price, adjusted to U.S. quality and location, for Strict Low Middling, 1-1/16 inch upland cotton at 50.57 cts per lb, to be in effect through midnight April 16. The adjusted world price is at average U.S. producing locations (near Lubbock, Texas) and will be further adjusted for other qualities and locations. The price will be used in determining First Handler Cotton Certificate payment rates. The department said since the adjusted world price is above the loan repayment rate of 44 cts per lb for the base quality, no First Handler Cotton Certificates will be issued during the period. Based on data for the week ended April 9, the adjusted world price for upland cotton is determined as follows, in cts per lb -- Northern European Price -- 62.88 Adjustments -- Average U.S. Spot Mkt Location --  9.98 SLM 1-1/16 Inch Cotton --  1.80 Average U.S. Location --  0.53 Sum of Adjustments -- 12.32 Adjusted World Price -- 50.63  
label 16	CHINA WANTS TO BUY 5,000 TONNES PAKISTANI COTTON China is negotiating with Pakistan to buy 5,000 tonnes of cotton this year, after importing the same amount last year under a barter agreement, Chinese consulate sources said. Chinese ambassador Tian Ding told a meeting of Pakistani industrialists on Thursday that China intended to increase imports from Pakistan to reduce a trade imbalance. Pakistani officials estimate the country's cotton output from the current crop at a record 7.6 mln bales (375 pounds each). Last year's output totalled 7.2 mln bales and domestic consumption was just below three mln bales, they said.  
label 16	WEST TEXAS COTTON CROP UNSCATHED BY STORM The West Texas cotton crop was largely unscathed by an isolated thunderstorm in that region last night that packed hurricane-force winds, crop and weather experts said. "There might have been some isolated storms, but certainly nothing damaging," said Charles Stichler, an extension agronomist with the Agricultural Extension Service in far West Texas. Rumors of a damaging storm in West Texas helped the New York cotton futures market rally sharply this morning. Cotton for December delivery was 1.35 cents higher at 70.95 cents a lb at midsession after peaking this morning at 71.25 cents. "What happened is that the storm hit Lubbock airport, and when that happens, everybody sees it," said Dale Mohler, a senior meteorologist with Accu-Weather Inc. Lubbock is the heart of the West Texas cotton region, which produces about 80 pct of that state's crop. The storm produced winds of about 75 mph. "That's hurricane force. But they were isolated to just a small portion of the West Texas area, probably less than five pct," Mohler said. "No doubt there was some damage. But if it had hit in July or August (when fruiting would be underway) it would have been worse," Mohler said. About 60 pct of the West Texas cotton crop has been planted, and the remainder could be done by the weekend if weather remains hot and dry, Stichler said. The temperature in West Texas since mid-week has been about 95 degrees. But a hot spell was sorely needed after far heavier than normal rainfall for several weeks, he said.  
label 16	TANZANIAN COTTON THREATENED BY LACK OF STORAGE About 60,000 tonnes of harvested raw cotton may be spoiled by rain in Tanzania's northern Shinyanga region because it is stored in the open or in crude village sheds, radio Tanzania reported. The cotton, worth one billion shillings, cannot be moved to ginneries in the region because most mill warehouses are full. Many mills are not working because of a lack of spare parts, it added. Agriculture Ministry officials have forecast a 1987/88 cotton harvest of about 200,000 tonnes, down from 215,000 in 1986/87.  
label 16	WORLD MARKET PRICE FOR UPLAND COTTON - USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department announced the prevailing world market price, adjusted to U.S. quality and location, for Strict Low Middling, 1-1/16 inch upland cotton at 52.69 cts per lb, to be in effect through midnight March 5. The adjusted world price is at average U.S. producing locations (near Lubbock, Texas) and will be further adjusted for other qualities and locations. The price will be used in determining First Handler Cotton Certificate payment rates. Based on data for the week ended February 26, the adjusted world price for upland cotton is determined as follows, in cts per lb -- Northern European Price               66.32 Adjustments -- Average U.S. spot mkt location 10.42 SLM 1-1/16 inch cotton          1.80 Average U.S. location           0.53 Sum of adjustments              12.75 Adjusted world price            53.57  
label 17	USDA TO PROPOSE FOREIGN MEAT INSPECTION RULE The U.S. Agriculture Department is preparing a proposal that would require all foreign meat products to be inspected at their point of arrival in the United States, a USDA official said. Donald Houston, administrator of USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service, FSIS, told a House Agriculture subcommittee USDA was developing a proposed change in regulations that would put an end to the current practice of permitting foreign meat products to be unloaded at one port and inspected at another port. Houston said the requirement would be phased in over several years to "avoid disruptions and economic hardship."  
label 17	ARGENTINE CATTLE MARKET REPORT ABOUT 3,314 HEAD OF CATTLE WERE AUCTIONED IN LINIERS CATTLE MARKET, AGAINST 13,952 ON WEDNESDAY AND 9,217 LAST THURSDAY, TRADE SOURCES SAID. MAXIMUN PRICES, IN AUSTRALES PER KILO, WITH DOLLAR EQUIVALENT IN BRACKETS, INCLUDED: TODAY     WEDNESDAY STEERS OVER 480 KILOS   1.02(0.658) 1.015(0.654) STEERS 460 TO 480 KILOS 1.05(0.677) 1.032(0.665) COWS FOR CANNING        0.56(0.361) 0.56 (0.361) REUTER  
label 17	CCC GUARANTEES TO IRAQ SWITCHED --USDA The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has transferred 12.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees previously earmarked for sales of U.S. hatching eggs and 7.0 mln dlrs in guarantees for breeder livestock to increase coverage on sales of U.S. protein concentrates to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The action was taken at the request of Iraq's State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs and reduces the line for hatching eggs to zero and the line for breeder livestock from 15.0 mln dlrs to 8.0 mln dlrs, the department said. The guarantee line for sales of protein concentrates has been increased from 25.0 mln dlrs to 44.0 mln dlrs, it said.  
label 17	U.S. FEEDER STEER PRICE The U.S. Feeder Steer Price, or USFSP, as posted by the CME is calculated by Cattle Fax and represents the price used for cash settlement of the CME Feeder Cattle contract. The USFSP is a seven-calendar-day average of feeder steer prices from 27 states, based on auction and direct country sales for feeder steers that weigh between 600 and 800 lbs and are estimated to grade between 60 and 80 pct choice when fed to slaughter weight. April 9         Previous quote 70.03             69.87  
label 17	CCC ACCEPTS BONUS ON CATTLE TO CANARY ISLANDS The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 2,750 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The cattle are for delivery May, 1987-October, 1988, it said. The bonus was 1,379.00 dlrs per head and was made to Holstein-Friesian, Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from the CCC inventory. An additional 175 headed of dairy cattle for still available to the Canary Islands under the Export Enhancement Program initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said.  
label 17	INDONESIA/TURKEY ELIGIBLE FOR CATTLE UNDER EEP U.S. exporters will be able to sell 8,000 head of dairy cattle to Indonesia and 5,000 head to Turkey under the Export Enhancement Program, the U.S. Agriculture Department said. The export sales will be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC), the department said. Indonesia and Turkey already have purchased 7,500 and 5,000 head of dairy cattle, respectively, under the program. Details of the program and an invitation for offers from exporters will be issued in the near future, it said.  
label 17	ANTIBIOTICS IN FEED AID DEADLY BACTERIA: STUDY A study of salmonella poisoning has uncovered new evidence that the common practice of feeding antibiotics to cattle is helping to create deadly bacteria that can infect humans and resist medicines. Researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Control tracked the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol and were able to link the resulting food poisoning to farms that used the drug to promote the growth of cattle. Cattlemen often give their animals a constant supply of antibiotics in feed to help them grow faster. But critics have been warning for years that the constant exposure to the drugs is helping bacteria learn to resist the drugs. Industry officials have disputed this, saying the diseases that develop a resistance in cattle probably do not affect humans. But the new study, reported in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine, shows the diseases can spread to humans. The research team, led by Dr. John Spika, said the number of people who have developed the chloramphenicol-resistant infection in Los Angeles County alone jumped from 69 in 1984 to 298 the following year. Two of those victims died and half the victims in their study of 45 patients had to be hospitalized for their illness. They also discovered that cooking the meat didn't always prevent the disease. Only 15 pct of the victims reported eating raw, infected hamburger. Thus, the researchers concluded, "the majority of cases appear to have been caused by eating hamburger that was at least partially cooked." The researchers said the results show that "food animals are a major source of antimicrobial-resistant salmonella infections in humans, and that these infections are associated with (antibiotic) use on farms."  
label 17	U.K. OFFICIALS STUDY SALMONELLA/CALF FEED LINK U.K. Officials are studying the possible link between the use of antibiotics in calf feeds and the spread of drug-resistant strains of salmonella in humans, a Ministry of Agriculture official said. A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine yesterday stated that the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol had been shown to be linked to farms that used the drug to promote the growth of cattle. The U.K. Ministry of Agriculture is working with the Department of Health and the Public Health Laboratory to investigate the whole subject of resistant strains of salmonella. "The Ministry of Agriculture is concerned about the possible effects on human and animal health," the official said. The government is also studying a recommendation from the Farm Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) to restrict the trade of calves under 56 days old through markets. The FAWC says this would help reduce the spread of salmonella.  
label 17	USDA TO CONDUCT SURVEY FOR AVIAN INFLUENZA U.S. Agriculture Department animal health officials are conducting a national survey of live-bird markets and auctions to check for signs of avian influenza, an infectious viral disease of poultry, the department said. The survey will locate poultry dealers and live-bird markets that sell live birds directly to the consumer and once the dealers and markets are identified, there will be tests to determine any past or present exposure to avian influenza viruses, it said. In 1983-84, an outbreak of avian influenza in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and New Jersey cost taxpayers 65 mln dlrs to control and required the destruction of more than 17 mln birds, it said. The survey is expected to be completed by April 15.  
label 17	AMERICAN PORK CONGRESS TO BE OVERHAULED IN 1988 The National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, announced at this year's American Pork Congress, APC, that the Congress and trade show will be divided into two parts in 1988. Next years APC, held in Atlanta, will be a business session only and will continue to be the first week of March. The trade show is being changed into a new international event called the World Pork Expo. The first expo will be held in June 1988 in Des Moines with an expanded format, they said. Executive vice-president Orville Sweet said the decision to spilt the show and Congress came about because there are producers who never get to see the trade show floor. "It makes sense that we divide the business session from the trade show," Sweet said.  
label 18	FED'S HELLER SEES RETURN TO SLOWER MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH  FED'S HELLER SEES RETURN TO SLOWER MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH  
label 18	FED'S HELLER SAYS MONETARY GROWTH TO BE SLOWER Robert Heller, a member of the Federal Reserve Board, said he expects "more modest levels" of growth in the money supply this year. "In my view, this would not only be a logical, but also a most desireable development," he said in a speech prepared for delivery to an economic forum at Chapman College in Orange, Calif. A text was released in Washington. He said the effect of lower inflation and financial deregulation on monetary aggregates was now largely finished. "Consequently, monetary growth may return to more modest levels," Heller said. He noted growth in the money supply slowed after mid-January. "I would not be surprised at all if the monetary aggregates were to grow rather slowly during the balance of the year as well," he added. Heller said there was a danger of renewed price inflation. "The pricing behavior of American producers in response to price increases of their foreign competitors will be crucial for our economic future," he said. Widespread domestic price rises in response to rising import prices would "generalize the inflationary forces emanating from the foreign trade sector" and might not gain more market share for U.S. producers. "A return to the stagflation of the late 1970s may well be the result of such a behavior pattern," Heller warned. He said "we at the Federal Reserve will have to be disciplined in our conduct of monetary policy." Heller said said the government should also exercise fiscal discipline and cut the deficit by spending restraint rather than new taxes. "The imposition of new taxes would tend to rekindle inflation and certainly would not make us more competitive in international markets," Heller said. He said the U.S. economy should expand by nearly three pct during 1987, aided by higher exports to Europe and Canada. A free trade agreement currently being negotiated with Canada "would be exceedingly helpful in allowing American producers to compete more effectively in that country," Heller said.  
label 18	NEW YORK BUSINESS LOANS FALL 1.31 BILLION DLRS Commercial and industrial loans on the books of the 10 major New York banks, excluding acceptances, fell 1.31 billion dlrs to 62.70 billion in the week ended April 1, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said. Including acceptances, loans dropped 1.34 billion dlrs to 63.23 billion. Commercial paper outstanding nationally fell 4.80 billion dlrs to 334.28 billion. National business loan data are scheduled to be released on Friday.  
label 18	N.Y. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 169 MLN DLRS The eight major New York City banks had daily average borrowings of 169 mln dlrs from the Federal Reserve in the week ended April 8, a Fed spokesman said. A Fed spokesman said that all of the borrowings were made yesterday by fewer than half the banks. It was the second half of the two-week bank statement period that ended on Wednesday. Average borrowings by these banks were 142 mln dlrs in the first week of the period.  
label 18	U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY FALLS TWO BILLION DLRS IN MARCH 30 WEEK, FED SAYS  U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY FALLS TWO BILLION DLRS IN MARCH 30 WEEK, FED SAYS  
label 18	FED SAYS U.S. DISCOUNT WINDOW BORROWINGS 361 MLN DLRS IN APRIL 8 WEEK  FED SAYS U.S. DISCOUNT WINDOW BORROWINGS 361 MLN DLRS IN APRIL 8 WEEK  
label 18	U.S. BANK NET FREE RESERVES 447 MLN DLRS IN TWO WEEKS TO APRIL 8  U.S. BANK NET FREE RESERVES 447 MLN DLRS IN TWO WEEKS TO APRIL 8  
label 18	U.S. BANK DISCOUNT BORROWINGS 361 MLN DLRS U.S. bank discount window borrowings less extended credits averaged 361 mln dlrs a day in the week to Wednesday, April 8, the Federal Reserve said. Total daily borrowings in the week fell 99 mln dlrs to 591 mln dlrs, with extended credits down 35 mln dlrs at 230 mln dlrs. The week was the second half of the two-week statement period that ended Wednesday. Net borrowings averaged 425 mln dlrs in the first week of the period. Commenting on the two-week statement period that ended on April 8, the Fed said banks had average net free reserves of 447 mln dlrs. A Fed spokesman told a press conference that there were no large one-day net misses in the Fed's estimates of reserves in the week ended Wednesday. Of the week's borrowings, money center banks accounted for 65 pct, and small banks for almost 35 pct. On Wednesday, when net borrowings were 1.36 billion dlrs and Fed funds averaged a high 6.45 pct, money center banks accounted for more than 90 pct of the borrowing. Borrowings in the latest two weeks averaged 393 mln dlrs a day, the highest since the statement period ended January 28. Float ranged from about 250 mln dlrs on Thursday to between one and 1.25 billion dlrs on Monday and Tuesday. The spokesman said Monday's float included 500 mln dlrs in holdover float at one Fed branch due to mechanical problems. About 500 mln dlrs of Tuesday's float reflected non-weather-related transportation float in one Eastern Reserve bank. As-of adjustments ranged from minus 500 mln dlrs on Monday, when cash letter errors at two eastern reserve banks were corrected, to plus 500 mln dlrs on Thursday, when a correction was made to unposted funds at a single bank. In the first half of the statement period ended Wednesday, banks held excess reserves on the first four days of the week but ran a deficit on Wednesday. In the second week, they ran a deficit on Thursday, Friday and Monday but held excess reserves on the final two days.  
label 18	U.S. M-1 MONEY SUPPLY FALLS TWO BILLION DLRS U.S. M-1 money supply fell two billion dlrs to a seasonally adjusted 738.9 billion dlrs in the March 30 week, the Federal Reserve said. The previous week's M-1 level was revised to 740.9 billion dlrs from 741.0 billion, while the four-week moving average of M-1 rose to 739.8 billion dlrs from 739.7 billion. Economists polled by Reuters said that M-1 would be anywhere from down two billion dlrs to up 1.8 billion.  
label 18	ASSETS OF U.S. MONEY FUNDS ROSE IN WEEK Assets of money market mutual funds increased 1.39 billion dlrs in the week ended yesterday to 236.77 billion dlrs, the Investment Company Institute said. Assets of 93 institutional funds were up 481.1 mln dlrs to 65.65 billion dlrs, 93 broker-dealer funds rose 285.3 mln dlrs to 107.31 billion dlrs, and 197 general purpose funds gained 625.5 mln dlrs to 63.8 billion dlrs.  
label 19	TECK STILL IN TALKS ON B.C. COPPER VENTURE &lt;Teck Corp> said it was continuing talks about joining a joint copper venture at Highland Valley, British Columbia, held by affiliates Cominco Ltd &lt;CLT> and &lt;Lornex Mining Corp>, but did not know when negotiations would be completed. Teck vice-president of administration John Guminski said in reply to a query that the talks had been "ongoing for a long time." He declined to speculate on the outcome. Cominco, 29.5 pct owned by a consortium led by Teck, is optimistic that the talks will soon be concluded, spokesman Don Townson told Reuters. "I think all partners are hopeful that the situation will be resolved," Cominco's Townson said. "We're optimistic that they will be concluded shortly," he added. Townson declined to specify when the talks might end. Cominco and Teck's 22 pct-owned Lornex agreed in January 1986 to form the joint venture, merging their Highland Valley copper operations. Cominco and Lornex share equally in control and management of the Highland Valley operations, while Cominco has a 55 pct share of production and Lornex receives 45 pct. For the six months following July 1, 1986, when the venture officially started production, Highland Valley had total ore milled of 22.6 mln short tons, grading an average of 0.41 pct copper, Townson said. Cominco's share of production was 43,000 short tons of copper contained in concentrate, 1,200 short tons of Molybdenum in concentrate, 340,000 ounces of silver and 800 ounces of gold, he said. A consortium, 50 pct owned by Teck and 25 pct each by MIM (Canada) Inc and Metallgesellschaft Canada Ltd, acquired its Cominco stake last year from Canadian Pacific Ltd &lt;CP>.  
label 19	MAGMA RAISES COPPER PRICE 0.25 CT TO 65.75 CTS Magma Copper Co, a subsidiary of Newmont Mining Corp, said it is raising its copper cathode price by 0.25 cent to 65.75 cents a lb, effective immediately.  
label 19	NORANDA BEGINS SALVAGE OPERATIONS AT MURDOCHVILLE &lt;Noranda Inc> said it began salvage operations at its Murdochville, Quebec, mine, where a fire last week killed one miner and caused 10 mln dlrs in damage. Another 56 miners were trapped underground for as long as 24 hours before they were brought to safety. Noranda said the cause and full extent of the damage is still unknown but said it does know that the fire destroyed 6,000 feet of conveyor belt. Noranda said work crews have begun securing the ramp leading into the zone where the fire was located. The company said extreme heat from the fire caused severe rock degradation along several ramps and drifts in the mine. Noranda estimated that the securing operation for the zone will not be completed before the end of April. Noranda said the Quebec Health and Safety Commission, the Quebec Provincial Police and Noranda itself are each conducting an investigation into the fire. Production at the mine has been suspended until the investigations are complete. The copper mine and smelter produced 72,000 tons of copper anodes in 1986 and employs 680 people. The smelter continues to operate with available concentrate from stockpiled supplies, Noranda said. Reuter  
label 19	NORANDA BEGINS MURDOCHVILLE MINE SALVAGE Noranda Inc said it began salvage operations at its Murdochville, Quebec mine where a fire last week killed one miner and caused 10 mln dlrs in damage. Noranda said the cause and full extent of the damage is still unknown but the fire destroyed 6,000 feet of conveyor belt. The company said extreme heat from the fire caused severe rock degradation along several ramps and drifts in the mine. Production at the mine has been suspended until investigations are complete. The copper mine and smelter produced 72,000 tons of copper anodes in 1986. The smelter continues to operate with available concentrate from stockpiled supplies, Noranda said.  
label 19	ELECTROLYTIC REFINING LOWERS COPPER PRICE The Electrolytic Refining and Smelting Co of Australia Pty Ltd said it lowered its ex-works Port Kembla Refinery Copper Price by 20 dlrs to 2,160 dlrs a tonne, effective today.  
label 19	CHINA, CHILE TO BUILD COPPER TUBE PLANT IN CHINA China's state-owned Beijing Non-Ferrous Metals Industrial Corp and &lt;Wrought Copper Ltd> of Chile signed a contract to jointly build a copper tube plant on the outskirts of Peking, the China Daily said. The Beijing-Santiago Copper Tube Co involves an investment of 9.93 mln dlrs and will, on completion, have a production capacity of 5,000 tonnes of copper tubes a year, it said. It said Chile will supply copper at preferential rates to the venture, whose equipment comes from &lt;Wednesbury Tube Co> of U.K. The agreement calls for joint Sino-Chilean management of the venture for 15 years, the paper said. It said the venture is the first economic cooperation project between China and Chile, but gave no more details. China is a major copper importer. Customs figures show it imported 171,118 tonnes of copper and alloy in calendar 1986, down from 355,652 tonnes in 1985.  
label 19	MUELLER BRASS LOWERS PRODUCT PRICES Mueller Brass Co said that effective with shipments today, it is adjusting the price of all brass mill products, except free-cutting brass rod and related alloys and copper water tube and related products, to reflect contained copper values at 73 cents a pound, down two cents.  
label 19	PHELPS DODGE &lt;PD> SEES STRONGER COPPER PRICES Phelps Dodge Corp officials said good fundamentals in copper markets should lead to improving prices for the metal. In an interview with Reuters, chairman G. Robert Durham said continued strong demand and low inventories pushed prices up eight to nine pct on the New York Commodities Exchange last month. "Our customers in this country are living off the tailgates of our trucks," he said, referring to tightness of supply and strong demand. "The fundamentals are good."  Asked if metal prices will continue to rise, Durham said; "All I know is, fundamentals cannot be ignored." He said copper supplies are lower than they have been for almost 20 years. Last year, copper demand was second highest on record behind 1984, he said. Phelps Dodge is the nation's largest copper company, with annual production expected to reach 500,000 tons this year.  During the interview, executive vice president Douglas Yearley said he believed it was only a matter of time before the copper price rose "because there aren't that many new projects coming on, and demand, short of a major recession, will continue to grow modestly." Copper for July delivery rose more than two cts a pound to more than 69 cents in Comex trading today. A one cent a pound rise in copper prices yields 10 mln dlrs in annual earnings for Phelps Dodge, the company said. "Demand has been surprisingly good in 1987, in construction and other areas," Yearley said.  New production later this year from a Bingham, Utah, mine owned by Kennecott Corp, a unit of British Petroleum Co PLC's &lt;BP> Standard Oil Co, a mine in New Guinea and Phelps Dodge's own expanded Morenci, Ariz., mine will be offset by production shortfalls in Mexico and Zambia, he said. Durham said production costs at the New Mexico-located Chino mine will be in line with conventional copper production at the company's other mines by the fourth quarter. The company's total production costs, including depreciation but before interest and corporate expense, should be below 50 cts a pound by late 1989 or 1990, he said.  
label 19	PHELPS DODGE SEEKS TO DIVERSIFY MORE FROM COPPER Phelps Dodge Corp is prepared to make another large non-copper acquisition and a deal could be struck in the near future, chairman G. Robert Durham said. Durham told Reuters the company was examining potential candidates but not yet talking with any. Any acquisition must have a different economic cycle to copper, he said. Phelps Dodge, the largest U.S. copper producer, last year paid 240 mln dlrs for Columbian Chemicals Co which makes carbon black used in rubber and tires. The purchase was part of a strategic plan to diversify and then match earnings between copper and non-copper operations. The company could spend between 250 mln and 500 mln dlrs to buy another non-copper firm, Durham said, citing 100 mln dlrs of cash and 580 mln dlrs of untapped bank credit.  
label 19	ZAMBIAN COPPER INDUSTRY HOPES FOR STEADY OUTPUT Zambia's copper mining industry is hoping to achieve and maintain production at over 500,000 tonnes a year in the next few years despite low world prices, deteriorating ores and shortages of mine inputs, industry officials said. But Zambia's decision to abandon last May 1 a tough International Monetary Fund (IMF) economic recovery program has introduced an element of uncertainty into plans to restructure the ailing industry and boost profitability, they said. Copper production by the government-controlled Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) for the 1987 financial year ended March 31 improved slightly to about 471,000 tonnes from a record 1986 low of 463,354 tonnes. "We are convinced that by the end of the 1988 financial year, copper production could well be over 500,000 tonnes due to greater availability of spares and equipment," a ZCCM official said. ZCCM officials said the production of cobalt, another strategic income earner, will also be tailored to meet demand. Finished production in 1986 was 4,565 tonnes, 911 tonnes higher than the previous year and the best production achieved to date. Protracted low world metal prices have badly hit the copper industry in Zambia, the world's fifth biggest producer. Mining is monopolised by ZCCM and accounts for about 90 pct of the country's foreign exchange earnings. Production has also been seriously affected in recent years by equipment breakdowns, deteriorating ore and shortages of spare parts, fuel and lubricants. The 463,354 tonnes output last year compared with a peak 1975 output of 700,000 tonnes. A five-year production and investment plan launched in 1984 by ZCCM is being funded by the European Community, the African Development Bank and the World Bank. The plan foresees the shutdown of some seven mining and metallurgical units on the grounds they are unprofitable. ZCCM, the second largest employer after the government, has said it intends to lay off 20,000 of its 60,000 workforce as part of the plan. More than 250 mln dlrs have so far been channelled into the industry in a bid to improve efficiency and profitability under the five-year restructuring plan. Company officials said although reserves were being depleted, Zambia could continue to produce copper beyond the end of the century, though at lower levels of production. Industry sources said ZCCM's projected pre-tax profit for the financial year ended March 31 would be around 500 mln kwacha. But with the current mineral export tax level being levied, a net loss is likely to be registered. ZCCM recorded a net loss of 718 mln kwacha in 1986 compared with a net profit of 19 mln kwacha the year before. Under the foreign exchange auction system introduced in 1985, ZCCM's profits from its foreign exchange earnings rose as the value of the kwacha fell to 21 to the dollar from just over two to the dollar. But on May 1, President Kenneth Kaunda abolished the auctioning system, inspired by the International Monetary Fund, and announced Zambia would pursue a go-it-alone economic strategy based on national resources. ZCCM officials are still cautious over what effects the break with the IMF will have on the industry's plans. "We are still consulting to see how the new measures will affect us but it is too early to say just how we shall fare under the new situation," Peter Hansen, director of operations and third in the ZCCM hierarchy, told Reuters. Some analysts believe the new officially-fixed exchange rate of eight kwacha to the dollar will hit ZCCM's export profits. "Most specialists I have talked to tell me the break-even point for ZCCM is a rate of 10 kwacha per dollar," Frederick Chiluba, leader of the Zambian Congress of Trade Unions said. High production costs continue to bedevil the Zambian industry. Zambia mines copper at a relatively expensive rate of 69 cents per pound, compared with 55 cents in the United States and under 40 cents in Chile. The industry also faces transport problems due to Zambia being landlocked. The government confirmed this year it had stopped sBending copper south through South Africa. Over 80 pct of shipments, some 35,000 tonnes a month, are sent by rail to the Tanzanian port of Dar-es-Salaam, while 5,000 tonnes go via Zimbabwe to the Mozambique port of Beira. Transport has often been hit by shortages of wagons, spares and fuel.  
label 20	SHOWA DENKO EXPORTS ALUMINIUM CASTING EQUIPMENT &lt;Showa Denko Ltd> said it is exporting aluminium billet casting equipment and technology to countries that have recently begun aluminium smelting. A company official said it won a 500 mln yen order to deliver 10 sets of casting equipment to Venezuela's Venalum by end-1987. He said it received an order for one set from Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. Last year and expects further orders from the Bahrain smelter. Showa Denko withdrew from smelting last year but expects to increase its sales of equipment and technology, he said.  
label 20	LME CLARIFIES NEW ALUMINIUM CONTRACT DETAILS The London Metal Exchange (LME) has issued a note clarifying details on its new high grade aluminium contract, in response to questions from members following the announcement of the contract, due to start June 1. All deliverable shapes of aluminium under the high grade primary aluminium contract (minimum 99.7 pct purity) will also be deliverable against the standard primary aluminium contract (min 99.5 pct), the LME said. Sows will not constitute good delivery against the standard contract until September 1, and 99.5 pct purity sows are not good delivery and cannot be placed on LME warrant. The dollar quotation for the high grade contract will be in multiples of one U.S. Dollar but carries may be made at 50 cents for even tonnages only. Singapore, which is the first port warehouse outside Europe to be used as an LME delivery point, will be used for high grade metal only and the rent imposed by owners Steinweg will be 1.05 U.S. Dlr a tonne per week, the LME said. The LME Board, in response to representation from the trade, agreed to annul from LME contracts the minimum weight requirements of 450 kilos for T-bars and 250 kilos for sows, effective for high grade on June 1 and for standard on July 24.  
label 20	WORK ON GREEK ALUMINA PLANT TO START END MAY Preparatory work for construction of a 450 mln dlr alumina plant near the village of Aghia Efthymia in the Greek province of Fokida will begin at the end of next month and the plant will be operational by 1992, Industry Undersecretary George Petsos said. Greece yesterday signed contracts with the Soviet Union for the joint venture project, the biggest investment in the country for 20 years. Petsos said the Soviet Union, which had initially agreed to buy 380,000 tonnes, would now purchase the plant's entire output of 600,000 tonnes a year.  
label 20	CHINA TO OPEN FIRST PHASE OF LARGE ALUMINIUM PLANT China, a major aluminium importer, will open the first phase of its biggest aluminium plant on October 1, the China Daily said. The first phase of the plant, located in Qinghai province, will have an annual capacity of 100,000 tonnes of ingots, half the capacity of the finished plant. It will turn out 4,000 tonnes in 1987, the paper said, but gave no more details. Construction of the 510 mln yuan plant began in April 1984. Customs figures show China imported 266,241 tonnes of aluminium and alloy in 1986, down from 487,862 in 1985.  
label 20	FORD &lt;F> DEVELOPING ALUMINUM CAR FRAME Ford Motor Co said it is developing an aluminum space frame for its Probe V concept car using extruded stretch-formed aluminum that could lead to new techniques for building production cars in the future. It said the frame would reduce vehicle weight and cost while maintaining structural integrity and crashworthiness. The frame has fewer parts than conventional steel frames, Ford said.  The company said the lighter weight would allow smaller powertrains and suspensions, further reducing weight and improving fuel economy. Ford said in addition, extrusion dies cost 1,000 to 12,000 dlrs each, compared with hundreds of thousands of dollars for steel stamping dies, and using extruded aluminum the number of welds in a car could be reduced to about 40 from over 2,000.  
label 20	ALCOA RAISING PRICES OF ALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN STOCK EIGHT PCT  ALCOA RAISING PRICES OF ALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN STOCK EIGHT PCT  
label 20	ALCOA RAISING PRICES OF ALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN STOCK EIGHT PCT  ALCOA RAISING PRICES OF ALUMINUM BEVERAGE CAN STOCK EIGHT PCT  
label 20	VENEZUELA GETS 300 MLN DLRS CREDIT FOR ALUMINUM Venezuela has obtained more than 300 mln dlrs in financing for industrial projects and increased its lines of credit for import financing, finance minister Manuel Azpurua said. 'We can say that we are achieving the recuperation of credit, but that cannot be done overnight,' Azpurua said in a television interview. He said a credit agreement for 100 mln marks will be signed this week with the German state bank Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KFW), to finance an expansion of the state aluminum company Venalum. The credit will be divided into two separate agreements, one for 85 mln marks with an interest rate of 6.13 pct, and another for 15 mln marks, at 6.20 pct. Azpurua said financing has also been obtained for expansion of Alcasa, another state aluminum company, and for projects in the state steel and petrochemical industries. Yesterday, he said Venezuela obtained two new credits of 5.0 mln dlrs each for export financing, one from Credit du Nord of France and the other from Britain's Midland Bank. The Venezuelan government has been criticised at home for failing to obtain new credits, despite its insistence on repaying foreign debt according to the terms of a rescheduling accord reached last February. Azpurua recently visited Tokyo hoping to acquire new credits for industrial expansions but clinched no agreements. Japanese officials refused to allow a new issue of Venezuelan bonds until the country regains its 'Triple A' credit rating.  
label 20	VENEZUELA OBTAINED 300 MILLION DLRS IN CREDITS venezuela has obtained more than 300 mln dlrs in financing for industrial projects and has also increased its lines of credit for import financing, finance minister manuel azpurua said. "we can say that we are achieving the recuperation of credit, but that cannot be done overnight," azpurua said in a television interview. Azpurua said a credit agreement for 100 mln marks will be signed this week with the german state bank kreditanstalt fur wiederaufbau (kfw), to finance an expansion of the state aluminum company venalum. The credit will be divided into two separate agreements, one for 85 mln marks with an interest rate of 6.13 pct, and another for 15 mln marks, at 6.20 pct. Azpurua said financing had also been obtained for the expansion of alcasa, another state aluminum company, as well as for projects in the state steel and petrochemical industries. He did not provide details. Yesterday, after a meeting of leaders of the ruling accion democratica party, azpurua said venezuela had obtained two new credits of five mln dlrs each for export financing, one from credit du nord of france and the other from the midland bank of great britain. The finance minister's statements came as the government is under sharp criticism for failing to obtain new credits, despite its insistence on repaying the foreign debt according to the terms of a rescheduling accord reached last february. Azpurua and other senior economic officals returned from a trip to tokyo last week in which they hoped to acquire new credits for industrial expansions, but no agreements were reached. Japanese officials also refused to allow a new issue of venezuelan debt bonds because until the country regains its 'triple a' credit classification.  
label 20	ALCAN REDUCES COST OF PLANNED SMELTER Alcan Aluminium Ltd said it has cut the expected cost of its planned Laterriere, Quebec, smelter by using enhanced Grande Baie reduction technology. The company said the decision to use prebaked anode technolgy used at its Grande Baie, Quebec, and Sebree, Ky., smelters was taken primarily for cost reasons. As a result, it said, the estimated total cost of the planned smelter will be held to 450 mln U.S. dlrs, the low end of the range estimated in mid-May, while the cost of the first phase was cut to 150 mln dlrs from the projected 175-225 mln dlrs.  
label 21	SHANGHAI TYREb FACTORY TO RAISE 30 MLN U.S. DLRS Ta Chung Hua Rubber Factory of Shanghai will raise a 30 to 35 mln U.S. Dlr loan to expand and modernise its plant, arranger CCIC Finance Ltd said. The loan, to be lead managed by the Bank of China, is expected to mature in eight to nine years, but terms have not been finalized. The money will be used to import manufacturing equipment including technology transfer for the production of truck radial tyres. Part of the output will be exported. The expansion program is expected to cost a total 54 mln dlrs. The shortfall will be financed domestically.  
label 21	MAJOR RUBBER PRODUCERS TO MEET IN SINGAPORE Officials from Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and, perhaps, Thailand will meet here tomorrow to discuss increased regional cooperation on rubber marketing and ways to raise rubber prices, industry sources said. The officials will discuss linking rubber markets in the four countries to improve price transparency, the sources said. This is the first time Indonesia is attending such a meeting, they said, but representatives from Thailand may not be able to attend because of their tight schedule. Malaysia, Indonesia and Thailand account for 90 pct of world rubber exports and Singapore is a major regional rubber trading centre. The Malaysian Rubber Futures market, freighting and contracts for rubber are among other issues expected to be discussed. Last month, rubber importing and exporting countries adopted a new International Natural Rubber Agreement in Geneva. The new pact is more responsive to market trends than its predecessor, the sources said, and earlier provisions allowing the buffer stock to borrow from banks have been eliminated.  
label 21	THAI VENTURE WILL SELL RUBBER TO CHINA Teck Soon Co Ltd, a major Thai rubber exporter has formed a joint venture with state-owned Chinese International Economic and Technology Development Corp to produce 50,000 tonnes of sheet rubber annually for export to the Chinese auto industry, Teck Soon general manager Chit Surivitchpan said. Chit said a new joint venture company will have a registered capital of four mln dlrs. China imported 69,952 tonnes of Thai sheet rubber last year and 60,296 tonnes in 1985.  
label 21	TOKYO EXCHANGE ALLOWS MORE GOLD AND RUBBER BROKERS The Tokyo Commodity Exchange for Industry (TOCOM) said it will allow five more members to become precious metal brokers, taking the total to 54, and four more members to broke rubber, for a total of 39. An exchange official told Reuters the Ministry of International Trade and Industry is expected to approve the the new brokers by mid-June. The move has been under study since early May in response to requests by non-broker members of the exchange.  
label 21	MALAYSIAN RUBBER OUTPUT RECOVERS FROM WINTERING Malaysian rubber production should return to normal levels this month after a hard wintering season, the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board said in its latest review. "As packers and remillers expect production to recover to normal levels in June, sellers will remain reserved in the near future," the review, dated May 14, said. Many consumers are holding off, waiting for the best time to buy. The market is mindful of approaching summer holidays in industrial countries and there is an air of uncertainty beyond July, it said. It gave no figures for the output drop.  
label 21	INRO COUNCIL MEETING ADJOURNED UNTIL THURSDAY A Council meeting of the International Natural Rubber Organization (INRO) has been adjourned until Thursday as tomorrow is a Malaysian national holiday, officials of the organisation said. The main issue at the talks, which opened here yesterday, has been the INRO buffer stock and the manner in which the buffer stock manager should continue to sell rubber after the current international pact for the commodity expires on October 22, they said. The deadline for the start of the new pact is January 1989. Buffer stock manager Aldo Hofmeister has been mandated to continue selling rubber during the interim period. Other issues discussed include ratification of the new accord, the officials said. Only Malaysia of the pact's 32 producing and consuming member countries had ratified the new agreement by the beginning of this month. The meeting is due to end on Thursday.  
label 21	REAGAN SENDS INT'L RUBBER AGREEMENT TO SENATE President Reagan sent the five-year International Natural Rubber Agreement to the Senate for approval. Reagan said the accord is designed to stabilize rubber prices without disturbing long-term market trends and to foster expanded natural rubber supplies at reasonable prices. It continues a buffer stock of not more than 550,000 tonnes established by a 197agreement. This will be used to defend a regularly adjusted price range and will be financed equally by importing and exporting members of the agreement.  
label 21	SCRAP CREPE RUBBER PRICES FIRAT COLOMBO AUCTION Scrap crepe prices firmed on good shortcovering demand at the Colombo rubber auction, brokers said. One-X brown was traded at 19.75 rupees per kg, up 15 cents from last rates while other grades also showed improvements. The rise was attributed to a shortage of rubber available to manufacture this type. Latex crepe prices were unchanged with the best one-X selling at 20.92 rupees. Crepe one was traded at 20.68 and crepe two at 20.45 rupees. Sheet was firm as in previous weeks with RSS1 averaging 22.05 rupees against 22 previously. The total quantity of rubber offered at the sale was 320 tonnes.  
label 21	RUBBER STOCK MANAGER SAYS QUALITY ACCEPTABLE International Rubber Organisation (INRO) buffer stock manager Aldo Hofmeister said tests had shown the quality of rubber in stock was acceptable, but acknowledged that some consumers were now wary of buying it. "We have said all along that the rubber is holding up well from a condition and quality standpoint...Rubber stored in proper conditions does not deteriorate," he told Reuters in a telephone interview. The quality of buffer stock rubber sold since he entered the market in September would be discussed at an INRO Council meeting which opened here today, he said. Tokyo traders said on Friday they had little interest in buying rubber from the INRO buffer stock because of possible poor quality. Hofmeister began selling rubber when prices exceeded the "may-sell' level of 232 cents per kg early last month. INRO's five-day moving average was quoted at 237.3 cents on October 16. He said the quality of five to six-year old rubber in stock was uppermost in consumers' minds. "We have received good interest for the rubber. I understand the Japanese concern. Many consumers want to try the rubber before they carry on buying," he said. Hofmeister said INRO rubber was stored in 28 different locations in producing and consuming nations, adding all warehouses used were suitable for long-term storage. Selling of buffer stock rubber had levelled off during the past week to 10 days and this could reflect a "wait and see attitude" by buyers, he said. "Consumers are holding back from buying additional amounts until they test out the rubber. If their tests are positiive, they are likely to buy more." Hofmeister said he could reduce the offer price of buffer stock rubber to stimulate interest but INRO did not want to depress prices artificially. Hofmeister declined to comment on Japanese trade estimates that he had sold around 30,000 to 32,000 tonnes in Kuala Lumpur and New York since September. But he said Japanese traders were in a position to have an idea of the quantity he had sold, noting that traders overall had put buffer stock sales at between 25,000 and 35,000 tonnes. The question of sales from the original 360,000 tonne buffer stock is expected to be the main topic of the Council meeting which is scheduled to end on Thursday. The current international rubber pact expires on October 22. The deadline for the new pact's start is January 1989 and Hofmeister has been mandated to continue selling rubber during the interim period.  
label 21	GOODRICH &lt;GR> TO PHASE OUT SOME BUSINESSES B.F. Goodrich Co said it will phase out the production of aircraft tires, missile and marine products and molded rubber products in Akron, Ohio, by the end of 1987, laying off about 790 salaried, production, maintenance and support services employees. The company said layoffs will start within the next few weeks. Goodrich said it will continue to make chemicals and adhesives in Akron, employing about 356.  Another 5000 salaried employees in Akron work for Goodrich. The company said it has not been able to operate the businesses being discontinued in Akron profitably enough to justify the large investment that it has in them. Goodrich said it will continue to make aircraft tires at Norwood, N.C., and sonar domes at Jacksonville, Fla., and will relocate its molded rubber products business to a site not yet chosen.  It said it will stop making insulators for missiles. Goodrich said it is prepared to discuss with officials of the United Rubber Workers Union severance benefits for affected employees and issues related to the continued operation in Akron of the chemical and adhesives businesses and to the phaseout of the Akron aircraft tire, missile and marine and molded rubber products manufacturing. A company spokesman said it does not expect any adverse impact on earnings from the move.  
label 22	MALAYSIA SEEKS 42 BILLION YEN PIPELINE LOAN Malaysia has asked Japan for a 42 billion yen 25-year loan to finance the construction of gas pipelines from eastern Trengganu to southern Johor, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) said. OECF's chief representative, Takashi Matsuya, told reporters the Japanese Government is appraising the loan. Another OECF official told Reuters Japan is likely to approve the loan because "it is technically and economically viable." If approved, the loan would carry a coupon rate of four pct, a grace period of seven years, Matsuya said. It would be disbursed over three years, he added. The pipeline contruction is the second phase of the Peninsular Gas Utilisation Project by Petronas, Malaysia's national oil company. The first phase was the supply of gas to households in and around the eastern oil town of Kertih.  
label 22	STATOIL SEEKS SHARE IN THAI GAS FIELD Norway's state oil company Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap A/S (Statoil) &lt;STAT.OL>, has told Thai authorities it is interested in taking a 30 pct share in a big offshore Thailand gas field, Statoil said. The field, in the southern sector of the Gulf of Thailand, is currently operated by U.S. Oil company Texas Pacific Oil Co Inc, a unit of Canada's Seagram Co Ltd &lt;VO.N>. Thailand's state oil company &lt;Petroleum Authority Thailand> (PTT) also holds a major stake in the field. PTT wants to develop the field and has asked Statoil to consider co-development if the field's licence is renewed. PTT, according to Statoil, is currently negotiating with Texas Pacific to buy back the Dallas-based oil company's holdings in the field. "PTT must first sort out its problems with Texas Pacific. When this is done, we have said we are interested in taking over a 30 pct share in the field," Statoil spokesman Willy Olsen told Reuters. Statoil, hired by PTT to carry out an independent appraisal of the field's reserves and propose a development plan, has estimated the field could be commercially developed at a cost of some 700 mln crowns. Industry sources said Texas Pacific has submitted lower reserve estimates for the field than Statoil and shown little interest in its development. Statoil refused to disclose its upgraded reserve estimate for the field. The field's reserves could be sold domestically through Thailand's gas distribution network or by converting the gas to electricity, the sources said. Sources would not say which field Statoil is considering.  
label 22	COLUMBIA GAS &lt;CG> SEEKS CONTRACT COST RECOVERY Columbia Gas Transmission corp said it made an abbreviated, streamlined filing with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to recover a portion if its costs of renegotiating high-cost gas purchase contracts. Recently, the Columbia Gas System Inc pipeline subsidiary said, FERC denied on procedural grounds and without prejudice a proposal to include these costs in the company's most recent purchased gas adjustment -- or PGA -- filing. Noting it has has asked for a rehearing on the denial ruling, Columbia Gas said it would withdraw its alternative filing if the commission grantes its request for a rehearing to include the contract renegotiation costs in its PGA or consolidates this issue in the pipeline's general rate filing and permit recovery, subject to refund, effective April one. The company said the alternative filing seeks to recover about 79 mln dlrs a year through the pipeline's non-gas sales commodity rates. This annual amortization amount is based on recovery of about 653 mln drls over an 8-1/4 year period, beginning April 1, 1987. Columbia Gas said the filing would increase the pipeline commodity rates by 15.74 cts per mln Btu to 2.95 dlrs per mln. The company said it orginially sought to include these costs in its PGA since the payments to products resulted in almost five billion dlrs in prospective price relief and were not related to take-or-pay buyout costs. It explained this interpretation was based on FERC's April 10, 1985, Statement of Policy which said that only take-or-pay buyout costs must be recovered through a general rate filing under the Natural Gas Act. As a result of renegotiating contracts for high-cost gas, Columbia Gas said, it has been able to reduce the average price paid for gas purchased from Southwest producers to 1.96 dlrs per mln Btu in December 1986 from 3.64 dlrs per mln in April 1985. The pipeline said Southwestern producers account for 46 pct of its total available gas supply this year.  
label 22	CANADA APPROVES U.S. GAS EXPORTS BY PROGAS ProGas Ltd was issued an export licence to sell 10.3 billion cubic meters of natural gas to Ocean State Power Co of Burrillville, Rhode Island, the federal energy department said. The sale, covering a 20 year period beginning May 1, 1989, was previously recommended by the National Energy Board. Contract terms were not released.  
label 22	TEXAS EASTERN &lt;TEX> UNIT FILES FOR NEW RATES Algonquin Gas Transmission Co, a unit of Texas Eastern Corp, said it has filed for Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approval of new rate schedules. It said it has also filed for proposed service agreements for interruptible and firm transportation service. Algonquin said the filing would allow its customers to move available spot gas supplies to price competitive markets.  
label 22	MOBIL &lt;MOB> HAS NORTH SEA NATURAL GAS FIND Mobil Corp said the 49/28-14 wildcat well in Block 49/28 of the British North Sea flowed 50.6 mln cubic feet of natural gas per day from depths of 7,742 to 7,777 feet. The company said it has a 23.33 pct interest and other interest holders include Atlantic Richfield Co &lt;ARC>, Sun Co &lt;SUN> and Deminex AG 10 pct.  
label 22	PAN-ALBERTA/UNITED GAS SETTLEMENT APPROVED Pan-Alberta Gas Ltd said its 1986 proposed settlement with United Gas Pipe Line Co, of Houston, received unconditional approval by the U.S. Federal Energy Regulator Commission. Pan-Alberta said the approved deal authorized terms of a two-year interim contract amendment, cash payments and transportation credits for Pan-Alberta's customers, minimum yearly natural gas takes by United and a two-year commodity price. United will pay Pan-Alberta producers about 50 mln dlrs over the interim period and take at least an average 40 mln cubic feet a day of gas, Pan-Alberta said.  
label 22	BROOKLYN UNION&lt;BU> SEEN HURT BY PIPELINE CLOSURE Brooklyn Union Gas Co, a New York gas utility, will see its gas costs up sharply as a result of Transco Energy Co's &lt;E> decision to close its pipelines to transport spot gas sales, energy industry analysts said. Brooklyn Union, the fourth largest gas utility in the United States, purchased 36 pct of its supplies on the spot, or non-contract, market in 1986, and the proportion of spot supplies was estimated much higher in the five months of 1987, analysts said. Texas Eastern pipelines &lt;TET>, the other competing pipeline, to deliver spot gas from producing areas in the South closed its gate station for summer, and Brooklyn Union has relied entirely on Transco for spot supplies. In the month of May, Brooklyn Union paid about two dlrs per mln British Thermal Unit for spot gas, while contract gas costs four to five dlrs per mln BTU, industry sources said. Transco announced yesterday it would no longer provide open access to transport spot natural gas to its customers for fear of accumulating more take-or-pay liabilities. Take-or-pay contracts oblige pipelines to pay producers for gas even if delivery is not taken by its customers. Brooklyn Union will continue receiving a small amount of supplies from minor fields under a grandfather clause, a Brooklyn Union official said. Foster Corwith, gas analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds, said most of the rising cost to Booklyn Union will be passed through to rate payers. While net effect on the company will not be known for several months because of the time lag in deferred earnings, end-users, especially residential and commercial customers, will end up paying more for gas, he said. Because the closure takes place in summer months when gas demand is at seasonal low, the impact on cash flow would be small, Curt Launer, natural gas analyst with Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette, said. If the situation persists into winter heating season, high cost gas could cut in the company's profits, he said. Gas utilities along eastern seaboard relying on Transco for spot gas, such as North Carolina Natural Gas Co &lt;NCNG>, Piedmont Natural Gas Co &lt;PNY>, will face the same high cost factor as Brooklyn Union, Steve Richards, a supply manager with end users supply system, a Houston based natural gas brokering firm, said. "But these companies are not unwitting victims of the take-or-pay dispute between Transco and producers," he said. Distributors have turned a deaf ear to Transco's request for an inventory charge, which reserves the pipeline facility for spot gas to be delivered to these companies, he said. Without spot supplies, the high cost of system gas will threaten to drive away large customers capable of shifting to alternative fuels, he said. In absence of any guidelines on inventory charges from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the matter is being negotiated between pipelines and customers, Richards said. Now that Transco has refused to transport cheap spot gas for them, these distributors are likely to be more conciliatory on the inventory charge, he said. "Cool heads will prevail," DLJ's Launer said, " but it may take a while."  
label 22	ALLEGHENY &lt;ALGH.O> FORMING SUBSIDIARY Allegheny and Western Energy Corp said it was forming a subsidiary to market gas to smaller users in West Virginia. The company also said it completed negotiations to sell between 10 and 12 mln cubic feet of gas per day to a large, unspecified East Coast utility. Interstate markets will become part of the subsidiary's operations, the company said.  
label 22	TENNECO TO BECOME OPEN ACCESS TRANSPORTER OF NATURAL GAS  TENNECO TO BECOME OPEN ACCESS TRANSPORTER OF NATURAL GAS  
label 23	9-APR-1987 07:38:18.81 9-APR-1987 07:38:18.81 
label 23	SPAIN'S FOREIGN RESERVES RISE IN FEBRUARY Spain's foreign reserves rose by 905 mln dlrs in February to total 17.05 billion dlrs, compared with 14.11 billion dlrs in February 1986, Bank of Spain figures show. Under a new accounting system introduced this month, Spain's foreign reserves now exclude foreign currency held by financial institutions. Under the previous system, Spain's foreign reserves would have risen by 391 mln dlrs in February, taking into account a fall of 514 mln dlrs in financial institutions' foreign currency position. In January this year, the Central Bank's foreign reserves rose by 143 mln dlrs, while financial institutions' foreign currency position fell by 118 mln dlrs.  
label 23	U.K. RESERVES RISE UNDERLYING 4.8 BILLION DLRS IN MAY, (2.9 BILLION APRIL) - OFFICIAL  U.K. RESERVES RISE UNDERLYING 4.8 BILLION DLRS IN MAY, (2.9 BILLION APRIL) - OFFICIAL  
label 23	U.K. RESERVES SHOW RECORD UNDERLYING RISE IN MAY Britain's gold and currency reserves rose a record underlying 4.76 billion dlrs in May, following April's 2.9 billion dlrs increase, the Treasury said. The underlying trend indicates the level of recent Bank of England intervention on currency markets to curb sterling's strength. It was above market expectations which had been for a rise of between one billion and three billion dlrs. The Treasury declined comment on the figures. Actual reserves rose 4.87 billion dlrs in May, compared with April's 2.8 billion increase, to a total value of 34.68 billion dlrs, compared with 29.81 billion at the end of April. Borrowings under the exchange cover scheme were 238 mln dlrs, against April's 66 mln. Repayments under the scheme were 85 mln dlrs, after 90 mln previously, with capital repayments of eight mln, after three mln last month. Repayments of government debt amounted to 33 mln dlrs. The underlying reserves increase is net of borrowings and repayments. It was larger than the previous record 3.04 billion dlrs rise seen in October 1977. The May increase represents the seventh monthly rise, with reserves up 9.947 billion dlrs in that period, and up 9.816 billion since the start of 1987.  
label 23	DANISH RESERVES RISE 10.5 BILLION CROWNS IN MAY Denmark's net official reserves rose to 60.629 billion crowns in May from 48.380 billion in April, against 39.481 billion in May 1986, the Central Bank said in its monthly balance sheet report. Total net reserves, including reserves held by commercial and major savings banks and corrected for exchange rate adjustments, rose to 58.373 billion crowns in May from 47.835 billion in April, against 32.443 billion in May 1986. The Bank said in a statement that public loan transactions accounted for net capital import of 0.1 billion crowns in May, with net registered private capital imports of 9.1 billion. "Of this, the net sale of Danish crown bonds to other countries totalled about 2.5 billion crowns. There was balance between the purchase and sale of foreign securities," the statement added. The Central Bank said that figures for private bank reserves and registered capital movements were provisional and there was no estimate yet of unregistered movements. "It is therefore not possible on this basis to draw conclusions about the developments of the external current account," the statement added.  
label 23	TREASURY TO PUBLISH U.S. RESERVE ASSETS MONTHLY The Treasury Department said it would release data on U.S. reserve assets on a monthly basis from now on instead of quarterly. Reserve assets are held in gold, special drawing rights with the Internatinal Monetary Fund, foreign currencies and in a U.S. reserve position in the IMF. Assets totaled 46.59 billion dlrs at the end of April, compared with 48.82 billion dlrs at the end of March, the Treasury said.  
label 23	FRENCH OFFICIAL RESERVES 420.50 BILLION FRANCS IN MAY VS 420.24 BILLION APRIL - OFFICIAL  FRENCH OFFICIAL RESERVES 420.50 BILLION FRANCS IN MAY VS 420.24 BILLION APRIL - OFFICIAL  
label 23	FRENCH OFFICIAL RESERVES RISE IN MAY French official reserves rose 258 mln francs in May to 420.50 billion francs from 420.24 billion at the end of April, the Finance Ministry said. The slight rise partly reflected the repayment last month of France's outstanding 11.95 billion francs of debt owed to the European Monetary Cooperation Fund (FECOM). It also reflected a negative 314 mln franc position with France's Exchange Stabilisation Fund after intervention purchases of 10.6 billion francs during May. Foreign currency holdings fell 7.28 billion francs to 124.58 billion while ECU holdings fell by 5.55 billion francs to 58.52 billion due to the repayment of part of France's debt owed to the FECOM and Stabilisation Fund operations, the ministry said. Claims on the IMF rose 1.14 billion francs to 18.97 billion, including a 385 mln franc increase in France's reserve position with the IMF and a 751 mln franc rise in holdings of Special Drawing Rights. Gold holdings were unchanged at 218.46 billion francs.  
label 23	ITALIAN NET OFFICIAL RESERVES FALL IN MAY Italy's net official reserves fell to 67,110 billion lire in May from a previously reported 68,455 billion in April, the Bank of Italy said. Gold holdings totalled 35,243 billion lire at end May, unchanged from end April. Convertible currencies totalled 18,277 billion lire in May, down from 20,028 billion in April, while European Currency Unit holdings were 10,610 billion against 10,528 billion.  
label 23	NORWEGIAN CENTRAL BANK RESERVES FALL IN MAY Norway's central bank reserves totalled 73.71 billion crowns in May against 76.06 billion in April and 95.02 billion in May 1986, the Central Bank said in its monthly report. Foreign exchange reserves totalled 70.3 billion crowns, compared with 68.4 billion in April and 88.0 billion a year ago. Gold reserves were unchanged from April's 284.8 mln crowns, and also unchanged from the year-ago figure. Central Bank special drawing right holdings were 3.16 billion crowns, compared with 3.06 billion in April and 2.51 billion in May 1986.  
