molecular_biology	this article shows how lamarckism was essential in the birth of the french school of molecular biology. we argue that the concept of inheritance of acquired characters positively shaped debates surrounding bacteriophagy and lysogeny in the pasteurian tradition during the interwar period. during this period the typical lamarckian account of heredity treated it as the continuation of protoplasmic physiology in daughter cells. f,lix d'h,relle applied this conception to argue that there was only one species of bacteriophage and jules bordet applied it to develop an account of bacteriophagy as a transmissible form of autolysis and to analyze the new phenomenon of lysogeny. in a long-standing controversy with bordet, eugsne wollman deployed a more morphological understanding of the inheritance of acquired characters, yielding a particulate, but still lamarckian, account of lysogeny. we then turn to andr, lwoff who, with several colleagues, completed wollman 's research program from 1949 to 1953. we examine how he gradually set aside the lamarckian background, finally removing inheritance of acquired characters from the resulting account of bacteriophagy and lysogeny. in the conclusion, we emphasize the complex dual role of lamarckism as it moved from an assumed explanatory framework to a challenge that the nascent molecular biology had to overcome.
enzymology	ceramides are synthesized by six mammalian ceramide synthases (cerss), each of which uses fatty acyl-coas of different chain lengths for n-acylation of the sphingoid long-chain base. we now describe a rapid and reliable cers assay that uses a fluorescent n-[6-[(7-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl) (nbd) sphinganine substrate followed by separation of the nbd-lipid substrate and products using solid phase extraction (spe) c18 chromatography. spe chromatography is a quick and reliable alternative to tlc, and moreover, there is no degradation of either nbd-sphinganine or nbd-ceramide. we have optimized the assay for use with minimal amounts of protein in a minimal volume. this assay will prove useful for the analysis of cers activity, which is of particular importance in light of the growing involvement of cers in cell regulation and in the pathology of human diseases.
southern_blotting	a putative glutamate decarboxylase (gad) gene, designated zmgad1, was cloned from zea mays with a combination of reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) and bioinformatic approaches. the zmgad1 cdna sequence contained a complete open reading frame encoding a putative protein of 496 amino acids, which contained a pyridoxal-5'-phosphate binding domain and a calmodulin (cam)-binding domain found in nearly all gads from plants. sequence analysis showed that it had highest similarity with rice gad1. recombinant zmgad1 protein was expressed in escherichia coli, purified and used to measure enzyme activity, which confirmed zmgad1 was really a glutamate decarboxylase gene. southern blotting analysis suggested that zmgad1 was present as a single copy gene in the maize genome. rt-pcr analysis revealed that zmgad1 was expressed in all examined tissues including the roots, stems, leaves, ears, and tassels. the expression of the zmgad1 gene was upregulated and gad activity was increased in the leaves and roots after treatment with aba, meja, nacl, peg, or cold stress. several stress-related cis-elements were present in the zmgad1 promoter cloned from maize genomic dna. these results suggested that zmgad1 might play an important role in responses to abiotic factors and hormone treatments.
northern_blotting	aim: to explore the microrna (mirna) expression in renal clear cell carcinoma (rccc). methods: we compared the mirna expression profiles in 11 pairs of rccc and adjacent nontumorous tissue (nt) from 11 rccc patients, using a mammalian mirna microarray containing whole human mature and precursor mirna sequences. to verify microarray results, northern blotting was carried out on 5 randomly selected mirnas. results: totally 81 mirnas were identified valid expression in rccc samples, 48 of which specifically detected in rccc samples, 17 of which detected downregulated in rccc compared to nt sample, 2 upregulated and 14 without significant difference. mirnas in rccc tissues exhibit an overall higher expression level than nt tissue. the chip results were confirmed by northern blot analysis. conclusion: our study may help to clarify the molecular mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of rccc, and mirnas potentially serve as a novel diagnostic biomarker of rccc. crown copyright (c) 2009 published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
human_metabolism	the mechanisms by which exposure to arsenic induces its myriad pathological effects are undoubtedly complex, while individual susceptibility to their type and severity is likely to be strongly influenced by genetic factors. human metabolism of arsenic into methylated derivatives, once presumed to result in detoxification, may actually produce species with significantly greater pathological potential. we introduce a transgenic drosophila model of arsenic methylation, allowing its consequences to be studied in a higher eukaryote exhibiting conservation of many genes and pathways with those of human cells while providing an important opportunity to uncover mechanistic details via the sophisticated genetic analysis for which the system is particularly well suited. the gene for the human enzyme, arsenic (+3 oxidation state) methyltransferase, was introduced into nonmethylating drosophila under inducible control. transgenic flies were characterized for enzyme inducibility, production of methylated arsenic species, and the dose-dependent consequences for chromosomal integrity and organismal longevity. upon enzyme induction, transgenic flies processed arsenite into mono and dimethylated derivatives identical to those found in human urine. when induced flies were exposed to 9 ppm arsenite, chromosomal stability was clearly reduced, whereas at much higher doses, adult life span was significantly increased, a seemingly paradoxical pair of outcomes. measurement of arsenic body burden in the presence or absence of methylation suggested that enhanced clearance of methylated species might explain this greater longevity under acutely toxic conditions. our study clearly demonstrates both the hazards and the benefits of arsenic methylation in vivo and suggests a resolution based on evolutionary grounds.
polymerase_chain_reaction	the study aimed to polish wastewater effluent from an activated treatment system for nitrogen removal by a packed bed bioreactor (pbr). the nitrogen removal via simultaneous partial nitrification, anammox and denitrification (snad) process was investigated with different hydraulic retention times (hrts). the results show that both effluent ammonia-and nitrate-nitrogen concentrations approached to 0 mg/l at the hrt as low as 3 h. the total nitrogen removal efficiency decreased from an average of 84% at both 18- and 24-h hrts to 38% at 3-h hrt. this low nitrogen removal efficiency was due to the presence of incomplete degradation of organic nitrogen at shorter hrts. the analysis using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction resolves that the ratio of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (aob) to the domain eubacteria changed limited in the range between 2.8 and 4.0% during the continuous operation. meanwhile, the nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (nob) increased from 0.0 to 2.9% when the hrt was gradually reduced to 3 h. the anammox bacteria accounting for 30.5% of microbial consortia dominated the aob and the nob at the 3-h hrt. in sum, inorganic form of nitrogen in a typical wastewater plant effluent could be efficiently polished via snad process in the pbr. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
immunology	we investigated the presence of ectoparasites and hemoparasites in side-blotched lizards (uta stansburiana) across a large part of their range and measured how parasitic infection related to several key physiological indicators of health. blood samples were collected from 132 lizards from central arizona, southern utah, and eastern oregon. hemoparasites were found in 22 individuals (3.2% prevalence in arizona, 19.1% in utah, and 6.3% in oregon), and ectoparasites were found on 51 individuals (56.3% prevalence in arizona, 56.1% in utah, and 6.7% in oregon), with 11 individuals infected with both. hemoparasites and ectoparasites were found in all three states. immunocompetence was higher in individuals infected with both hemoparasites and ectoparasites. body condition, glucocorticoid levels, and reproductive investment were not related to infection status. our study provides evidence that parasitic infection is associated with an active immune system in wild reptiles but may not impose other costs usually associated with parasites.
genetics	purpose of review we aimed to produce a comprehensive update on clinical and biological data regarding two rare lymphoid neoplasms, b and t prolymphocytic leukemias, and assess therapeutic management in the light of new molecular insights and the advent of targeted therapies. recent findings b cell prolymphocytic leukemia (b-pll) diagnosis remains challenging in the absence of clear immunophenotypic or cytogenetic signature and overlap with mantle cell lymphoma. new molecular defects have been identified in t cell prolymphocytic leukemia (t-pll), especially in the jak stat pathway. like in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll), b-pll treatment depends on the presence of tp53 dysfunction. in t-pll, alemtuzumab still remains the standard of care. allogeneic transplantation is the only curable option. thanks to reduced intensity conditioning regimens, it has become accessible to a larger number of patients. summary pll prognosis remains poor with conventional therapies. however, great advances in the understanding of both t-and b-pll pathogenesis lead to promising new therapeutic agents.
cell_biology	dozens of murine models of indolent and aggressive b-cell lymphomas have been generated to date. these include those manifesting chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll), diffuse large b-cell lymphoma (dlbcl), as well as xenografts of mantle cell lymphoma (mcl). these models have led to an improved understanding of disease etiology, b-cell biology, immunomodulation, and the importance of the tumor microenvironment. despite these efforts in cll, dlbcl, and mcl, considerably little progress toward a model of splenic marginal zone lymphoma (smzl) has been accomplished. herein, we describe the similarities and differences between cll, mcl, and smzl and highlight effective murine models that mimic disease in the two former, in hopes of informing a potential model of the latter. at the time of writing this review, the precise molecular events of smzl remain to be determined and a treatment regimen remains to be identified. therefore, based on the efforts put forth in the b-cell lymphoma field throughout the past three decades, the established role of caveolin-1 in b-and t-cell biology as an oncogene or tumor suppressor, and the recurrent deletion or loss of heterozygosity (loh) of 7q in many cancers, we make recommendations for a murine model of smzl.
