molecular_biology	this article shows how lamarckism was essential in the birth of the french school of molecular biology. we argue that the concept of inheritance of acquired characters positively shaped debates surrounding bacteriophagy and lysogeny in the pasteurian tradition during the interwar period. during this period the typical lamarckian account of heredity treated it as the continuation of protoplasmic physiology in daughter cells. f,lix d'h,relle applied this conception to argue that there was only one species of bacteriophage and jules bordet applied it to develop an account of bacteriophagy as a transmissible form of autolysis and to analyze the new phenomenon of lysogeny. in a long-standing controversy with bordet, eugsne wollman deployed a more morphological understanding of the inheritance of acquired characters, yielding a particulate, but still lamarckian, account of lysogeny. we then turn to andr, lwoff who, with several colleagues, completed wollman 's research program from 1949 to 1953. we examine how he gradually set aside the lamarckian background, finally removing inheritance of acquired characters from the resulting account of bacteriophagy and lysogeny. in the conclusion, we emphasize the complex dual role of lamarckism as it moved from an assumed explanatory framework to a challenge that the nascent molecular biology had to overcome.
molecular_biology	culture-based pathogen identification in skull base osteomyelitis, particularly for fungi, is often inaccurate. we report the case of patient with fungal skull base osteomyelitis cured by sustained antifungal therapy after 16 months of debilitating illness. due to medical complications, a strong clinical rationale was needed to justify long-term antifungal therapy. the offending fungus was identified by experimental molecular technology (ibis t5000 universal biosensor); invasive fungal disease was corroborated by biochemical assays. our discussion will help familiarize the otolaryngologist with existing biochemical and molecular diagnostics for invasive fungal disease. we encourage future investigators to study their application in cases of skull base osteomyelitis.
molecular_biology	this review summarizes present evidence for the role of ykl-40 in the diagnosis, prognosis and cause of cardiovascular and alcoholic liver disease. the question of whether ykl-40 is merely a marker or a causal factor in the development of cardiovascular and liver disease is addressed, with emphasis on the mendelian randomization design. the mendelian randomization approach uses genetic variants associated with lifelong high plasma ykl-40 levels that are largely unconfounded and not prone to reverse causation. thus, the approach mimics a controlled double-blind randomized trial, but it uses genetic variants rather than a drug and placebo, and like a blinded trial, it allows inference about causality. moreover, the review also covers background on the molecular biology and functions of ykl-40, ykl-40 levels in healthy individuals and reference range, and the role of ykl-40 as a biomarker of cardiovascular and alcoholic liver disease. ykl-40 is a plasma protein named after its three n-terminal amino acids, y (tyrosine), k (lysine) and l (leucine), and its molecular weight of 40kda. it is produced by local inflammatory cells in inflamed tissues, such as lipid-laden macrophages inside the vessel wall and perhaps also hepatic stellate cells. observational studies show that plasma ykl-40 levels are elevated in patients with cardiovascular and liver disease and are associated with disease severity and prognosis. furthermore, elevated plasma ykl-40 levels in apparently healthy individuals are associated with a 2-fold increased risk of future ischemic stroke and venous thromboembolism, but not with myocardial infarction, suggesting that ykl-40 could play a role in the formation of embolisms rather than atherosclerosis per se. further, elevated ykl-40 levels combined with excessive alcohol consumption are associated with 10-years risk of alcoholic liver cirrhosis of up to 7%, suggesting that ykl-40 can be used as a strong noninvasive marker of predicting alcoholic liver cirrhosis. importantly, in mendelian randomization studies, genetically elevated plasma ykl-40 levels were not associated with risk of cardiovascular and alcoholic liver disease, thus suggesting that plasma ykl-40 does not play a causal role in the development of these diseases. despite this, plasma ykl-40 levels may play a role in disease progression after diagnosis, and inhibition of ykl-40 activity might be a novel therapy in some cardiovascular and liver diseases.
molecular_biology	the present study reports us independent classic articles published by american scientists from 1900 to 2014. we examined those articles that had been cited at least 1000 times since publication to the end of 2014 using the science citation index expanded in the web of science (wos). we also applied a bibliometric indicator, the y-index, to assess the contributions of the authors of these articles. the results showed that 4909 classic articles were published between 1916 and 2013, and that the most productive categories from the wos were multidisciplinary sciences, biochemistry and molecular biology, and general and internal medicine. science published most of these articles, and the three most productive institutions were harvard university, massachusetts institute of technology and stanford university. the physicist, edward witten was the most prolific author and an article written by the biochemist, marion bradford at university of georgia in 1976 had the highest number of citations. in addition, the article by perdew, burke and ernzerhof at tulane university had the highest number of citations in 2014.
molecular_biology	peripheral neuronal activation by inflammatory mediators is a multifaceted physiological response that involves a multitude of regulated cellular functions. one key pathway that has been shown to be involved in inflammatory pain isgq/gpcr, whose activation by inflammatory mediators is followed by the regulated response of the cation channel transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 (trpv1). however, the mechanism that underlies trpv1 activation downstream of the gq/gpcr pathway has yet to be fully defined. in this study, we employ pharmacological and molecular biology tools to dissect this activation mechanism via perforated-patch recordings and calcium imaging of both neurons and a heterologous system. we showed that trpv1 activity downstream of gq/gpcr activation only produced a subdued current, which was noticeably different from the robust current that is typical of trpv1 activation by exogenous stimuli. moreover, we specifically demonstrated that 2 pathways downstream of gq/gpcr signaling, namely endovanilloid production by lipoxygenases and channel phosphorylation by pkc, converge on trpv1 to evoke a tightly regulated response. of importance, we show that only when both pathways are acting on trpv1 is the inflammatory-mediated response achieved. we propose that the requirement of multiple signaling events allows subdued trpv1 activation to evoke regulated neuronal response during inflammation.- kumarr., hazan, a., geron, m., steinberg, r., livni, l., matzner, h., priel, a. activation of transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 by lipoxygenase metabolites depends on pkc phosphorylation.
enzymology	ceramides are synthesized by six mammalian ceramide synthases (cerss), each of which uses fatty acyl-coas of different chain lengths for n-acylation of the sphingoid long-chain base. we now describe a rapid and reliable cers assay that uses a fluorescent n-[6-[(7-nitrobenzo-2-oxa-1,3-diazol-4-yl) (nbd) sphinganine substrate followed by separation of the nbd-lipid substrate and products using solid phase extraction (spe) c18 chromatography. spe chromatography is a quick and reliable alternative to tlc, and moreover, there is no degradation of either nbd-sphinganine or nbd-ceramide. we have optimized the assay for use with minimal amounts of protein in a minimal volume. this assay will prove useful for the analysis of cers activity, which is of particular importance in light of the growing involvement of cers in cell regulation and in the pathology of human diseases.
enzymology	a thermostable amidase produced by geobacillus subterraneus rl-2a was purified to homogeneity, with a yield of 9.54 % and a specific activity of 48.66 u mg(-1). the molecular weight of the native enzyme was estimated to be 111 kda. the amidase of g. subterraneus rl-2a is constitutive in nature, active at a broad range of ph (4.5-11.5) and temperature (40-90 a degrees c) and has a half-life of 5 h and 54 min at 70 a degrees c. inhibition of enzyme activity was observed in the presence of metal ions, such as co2+, hg2+, cu2+, ni2+, and thiol reagents. the presence of mid-chain aliphatic and amino acid amides enhances the enzymatic activity. the acyl transferase activity was detected with propionamide, butyramide and nicotinamide. the enzyme showed moderate stability toward toluene, carbon tetrachloride, benzene, ethylene glycol except acetone, ethanol, butanol, propanol and dimethyl sulfoxide. the k (m) and v (max) of the purified amidase with nicotinamide were 6.02 +/- a 0.56 mm and 132.6 +/- a 4.4 mu mol min(-1) mg(-1) protein by analyzing michaelis-menten kinetics. the results of maldi-tof analysis indicated that this amidase has homology with the amidase of geobacillus sp. c56-t3 (gi|297530427). it is the first reported wide-spectrum thermostable amidase from a thermophilic g. subterraneus.
enzymology	the enzyme cofactor and essential vitamin biotin is biosynthesized in bacteria, fungi, and plants through a pathway that culminates with the addition of a sulfur atom to generate the five-membered thiophane ring. the immediate precursor, dethiobiotin, has methylene and methyl groups at the c6 and c9 positions, respectively, and formation of a thioether bridging these carbon atoms requires cleavage of unactivated c-h bonds. biotin synthase is an s-adenosyl-l-methionine (sam or adomet) radical enzyme that catalyzes reduction of the adomet sulfonium to produce 5'-deoxyadenosyl radicals, high-energy carbon radicals that can directly abstract hydrogen atoms from dethiobiotin. the available experimental and structural data suggest that a [2fe-2s](2+) cluster bound deep within biotin synthase provides a sulfur atom that is added to dethiobiotin in a stepwise reaction, first at the c9 position to generate 9-mercaptodethiobiotin, and then at the c6 position to close the thiophane ring. the formation of sulfur-containing biomolecules through a radical reaction involving an iron-sulfur cluster is an unprecedented reaction in biochemistry; however, recent enzyme discoveries suggest that radical sulfur insertion reactions may be a distinct subgroup within the burgeoning radical sam superfamily. this article is part of a special issue entitled: radical sam enzymes and radical enzymology. (c) 2012 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
enzymology	a variety of topics are reviewed in the area of mathematical and computational modeling in biology, covering the range of scales from populations of organisms to electrons in atoms. the use of maximum entropy as an inference tool in the fields of biology and drug discovery is discussed. mathematical and computational methods and models in the areas of epidemiology, cell physiology and cancer are surveyed. the technique of molecular dynamics is covered, with special attention to force fields for protein simulations and methods for the calculation of solvation free energies. the utility of quantum mechanical methods in biophysical and biochemical modeling is explored. the field of computational enzymology is examined.
enzymology	the genome of the rice blast fungus magnaporthe oryzae codes for two proteins with n-terminal dioxygenase (dox) and c-terminal cytochrome p450 (cyp) domains, respectively. one of them, mgg_ 13239, was confirmed as 7,8-linoleate diol synthase by prokaryotic expression. the other recombinant protein (mgg_ 10859) possessed prominent 10r-dox and epoxy alcohol synthase (eas) activities. this enzyme, 10r-dox-eas, transformed 18:2n-6 sequentially to 10(r)-hydroperoxy-8(e), 12(z)-octadecadienoic acid (10r-hpode) and to 12s(13r)-epoxy-10(r)-hydroxy-8(e)octadecenoic acid as the end product. oxygenation at c-10 occurred by retention of the pro-r hydrogen of c-8 of 18:2n-6, suggesting antarafacial hydrogen abstraction and oxygenation. experiments with o-18(2) and o-16(2) gas confirmed that the epoxy alcohol was formed from 10r-hpode, likely by heterolytic cleavage of the dioxygen bond with formation of p450 compound i, and subsequent intramolecular epoxidation of the 12(z) double bond. site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated that the cysteinyl heme ligand of the p450 domain was required for the eas activity. replacement of asn(965) with val in the conserved asnglnxaagln sequence revealed that asn965 supported formation of the epoxy alcohol. 10r-dox-eas is the first member of a novel subfamily of dox-cyp fusion proteins of devastating plant pathogens.
southern_blotting	a putative glutamate decarboxylase (gad) gene, designated zmgad1, was cloned from zea mays with a combination of reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr) and bioinformatic approaches. the zmgad1 cdna sequence contained a complete open reading frame encoding a putative protein of 496 amino acids, which contained a pyridoxal-5'-phosphate binding domain and a calmodulin (cam)-binding domain found in nearly all gads from plants. sequence analysis showed that it had highest similarity with rice gad1. recombinant zmgad1 protein was expressed in escherichia coli, purified and used to measure enzyme activity, which confirmed zmgad1 was really a glutamate decarboxylase gene. southern blotting analysis suggested that zmgad1 was present as a single copy gene in the maize genome. rt-pcr analysis revealed that zmgad1 was expressed in all examined tissues including the roots, stems, leaves, ears, and tassels. the expression of the zmgad1 gene was upregulated and gad activity was increased in the leaves and roots after treatment with aba, meja, nacl, peg, or cold stress. several stress-related cis-elements were present in the zmgad1 promoter cloned from maize genomic dna. these results suggested that zmgad1 might play an important role in responses to abiotic factors and hormone treatments.
southern_blotting	to investigate the basis of susceptibility to phenicols and oxazolidinones of the porcine enterococcus faecalis cppf5 despite the presence of the multiresistance gene cfr. southern blotting, conjugation and transformation analyses were conducted to confirm the plasmid location and transferability of cfr in cppf5. the genetic environment of cfr was determined by sequence analysis. transcription and translation of cfr were examined by rtpcr and western blotting, respectively, and modifications at a2503 within the 23s rrna sequence were identified by primer extension. electrotransformation and southern blotting indicated that cppf5 and its transformant 5b2-3 contained two cfr-carrying plasmids 50 and 12 kb in size. the complete 12270 bp sequence of the smaller plasmid, pcppf5, was determined and shared 99.9 (12269/12270 bp) identity with the corresponding region of the cfr-carrying plasmid pef-01 in e. faecalis of cattle origin. moreover, the genetic environment of cfr in the 50 kb plasmid was the same as that in pcppf5 according to sequencing results. although cfr mrna, cfr protein and a modification at the a2503 site were detected, the cfr-carrying transformant 5b2-3 did not have elevated mics of chloramphenicol, florfenicol and linezolid, indicating that cfr fails to mediate resistance to the respective antibiotics in e. faecalis. this is the first report of the cfr gene failing to elevate mics of the corresponding antibiotics. although the genetic basis for the apparent no resistance phenotype remains to be determined, this finding may have implications for surveillance studies that target the cfr gene.
southern_blotting	volvariella volvacea, or straw mushroom, is a widely cultivated and important edible fungus. in this paper, we used straw mushroom as a host to express an exogenous mfc gene encoding a multi-functional cellulase (mfc) cloned from the mollusc ampullaria crossean. the purpose was to increase expression of mfc in the new host, as well as to improve cellulose degradation and increase future yields of v. volvacea. mfc is an enzyme with exo-beta-1,4-glucanase, endo-beta-1,4-glucanase, and endo-beta-xylanase activities. the a. crossean mfc gene was expressed in v. volvacea under the control of an endogenous promoter (gpd-vvs) using the expression vector pgvvs-mfc, constructed by ligating the gpd-vvs promoter with the mfc gene. the expression plasmid, pgvvs-afp, containing an afp gene encoding an anti-freeze protein (afp) cloned from spruce budworm as the selective marker gene, was co-transformed into protoplasts of v. volvacea along with the vector pgvvs-mfc using polyethylene glycol (peg)-mediated transformation. putative transformants of v. volvacea were obtained by exposing the mycelia to regeneration medium (200 g l(-1) potato extract, 20 g l(-1) dextrose, 20 g l(-1) agar, and 0.8 m d-mannitol) at 0 degrees c. pcr and southern blotting were used to identify positive transformants. the results indicated that the mfc gene had been integrated into the genome of v. volvacea. the total cellulose activity, based on filter paper degradation, and carboxymethyl cellulase and xylanase activities in the transformants were 3.92, 4.75, and 58.99 units ml(-1), respectively. sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed an approx. 46 kda band, which was equivalent to the expected size of the mfc protein of a. crossean. thus, the mfc gene appeared to have been expressed heterologously in v. volvacea.
southern_blotting	a resveratrol synthase gene was cloned from the peanut plant (arachis hypogaea) by rt-pcr and was transformed into purple sweet potato (ipomoea batatas) by agrobacterium-mediated transformation. stem sections were infected with bacterial solution of od(600) = 0.4 for 20 min and then cocultured for 2 days. infected explants were cultured on ms media containing 50 mg/l kanamycin, 0.02 mg/l naa and 1 mg/l 6-ba for bud induction or containing 75 mg/l kanamycin, 1.0 mg/l naa and 0.1 mg/l 6-ba for root formation. the bud and root induction rates were 37.5 and 25.0%, respectively. 105 regenerated plants were obtained, with 11 positive plants by pcr and southern blotting analyses. a high level of resveratrol glucoside (340 mu g/g dry weight), but no resveratrol, was detected in the transformed plants by hplc. this study also provides a stable genetic transformation and plant regeneration method for metabolic modification of purple sweet potato.
southern_blotting	no commercial vaccines are currently available for enterovirus 71 (ev71) infection. oral virus-like particle (vlp) vaccines are regarded as a better choice for prevention from food-borne diseases compared with injected whole virus vaccines. unfortunately, the application of oral vlp vaccines produced from transgenic plants was limited due to the concerns of gene contamination. alternatively, using transgenic mushrooms retains the advantages of transgenic plants and tremendously reduce risks of gene contamination. polycistronic expression vectors harboring the glyceraldehyde-3-phospho-dehydrogenase promoter to codrive ev71 structural protein p1 and protease 3c using the 2a peptide of porcine teschovirus-1 were constructed and introduced into flammulina velutipes via agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. the analyses of the genomic pcr, southern blotting, and rt-pcr showed that the genes of p1 and 3c were integrated into the chromosomal dna through a single insertion, and their resulting mrnas were transcribed. the western blotting analysis combined with lc-ms/ms demonstrated that ev71 vlps were composed of the four subunit proteins digested from p1 polyprotein by 3c protease. through the use of a single particle electron microscope, images of 1705 particles with diameter similar to the ev71 viron were used for 3d reconstruction. protrusions were observed on the surface in the 2d class averages, and a 3d reconstruction of the vlps was obtained. in conclusion, ev71 vlps were successfully produced in transgenic f. velutipes using a polycistronic expression strategy, which indicates that this approach is promising for the development of oral vaccines produced in mushrooms.
northern_blotting	aim: to explore the microrna (mirna) expression in renal clear cell carcinoma (rccc). methods: we compared the mirna expression profiles in 11 pairs of rccc and adjacent nontumorous tissue (nt) from 11 rccc patients, using a mammalian mirna microarray containing whole human mature and precursor mirna sequences. to verify microarray results, northern blotting was carried out on 5 randomly selected mirnas. results: totally 81 mirnas were identified valid expression in rccc samples, 48 of which specifically detected in rccc samples, 17 of which detected downregulated in rccc compared to nt sample, 2 upregulated and 14 without significant difference. mirnas in rccc tissues exhibit an overall higher expression level than nt tissue. the chip results were confirmed by northern blot analysis. conclusion: our study may help to clarify the molecular mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of rccc, and mirnas potentially serve as a novel diagnostic biomarker of rccc. crown copyright (c) 2009 published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
northern_blotting	backgound: beta-carotene exhibits biological activity as provitamin a. key step in vitamin a formation is the cleavage of beta-carotene to retinal by an enzyme designated as beta-carotene 15,15'-monooxygenase (bcm). recently, it is reported that expression of bcm gene in the intestine is under feedback regulation by retinoic acid (ra). however, the regulation of bcm gene expression in various other tissues is still unknown. aim of the study: in the present study, we identified the full-length cdna encoding the rat bcm gene and investigated the regulation of its expression in several tissues by ra in the presence of vitamin a deficiency. methods: we cloned the full-length cdna encoding bcm gene from a rat intestinal cdna library by hybridization screening. the bcm gene expression was examined using northern blotting and reverse transcription-pcr analysis. we also investigated whether bcm gene expression was regulated by retinoids in several tissues of vitamin a-deficient rats. results: sequence analysis of this clone revealed an open reading frame of 1,701 bases encoding a protein of 566 amino acids. the predicted polypeptide showed 94%, 81%, and 66% identity with mouse, human, and chicken bcm, respectively. rat bcm mrna was highly expressed in the intestine and liver, while there was weak expression in the testes, kidneys, and lungs. immunoblotting revealed that rat bcm is a 64-kda protein. bcm gene expression was increased in the small intestine by vitamin a deficiency compared with that in rats on a control diet, while this upregulation was suppressed by all-trans ra (atra) or 9-cis ra (9-cis ra). bcm gene expression in the lungs and testes was also suppressed by atra or 9-cis ra in rats with vitamin a deficiency. however, hepatic bcm gene expression was only decreased by atra and renal expression was not affected by either retinoid. as the small intestine is the major site of beta-carotene conversion, intestinal bcm gene expression may be more tightly regulated. conclusion: these data suggest that bcm gene expression in several tissues may be down-regulated by ra at the level of conversion of beta-carotene to retinal. to prevent an excess of retinol, homeostasis may occur at the level of conversion of beta-carotene to retinal in several tissues.
northern_blotting	micrornas (mirnas) are a class of non-coding rnas that play critical roles in post-transcriptional regulation. their target genes are involved in a variety of biological processes such as development, metabolism, and stress response. panicum miliaceum l. (panicum) is an important grain crop, but, until now, no mirnas have been identified in this plant. using a homology search based on expressed sequence tag (est) analysis and mirna precursor secondary structure, a total of 43 new mirnas were identified. the mirnas were found to be unevenly distributed among 11 mirna families. target analysis using the plant small rna target analysis server psrnatarget showed that the newly identified mirnas can potentially regulate 68 target genes. ten of the 11 mirna families were annotated as involved in rna regulation, suggesting they may play an essential role in post-transcriptional regulation in panicum. selected mirnas representing eight of the families were verified by northern blotting, indicating that the prediction method that we used to identify the mirnas was effective.
northern_blotting	many recent studies have reported that microrna (mirna) biogenesis and function are related to the molecular mechanisms of various clinical diseases. several methods, including northern blotting and dna chip analyses, are capable of assessing mirna-production patterns in cells. however, the development of repetitive monitoring of the mirna-production profile in a noninvasive manner is demanded for the application of mirnas to human medicine. here, we describe a noninvasive system for monitoring mirna biogenesis, from the stage of primary transcripts to that of mature mirna regulation. we review the optical methods that have been developed to image mirna production at each step of the mirna-processing pathway in living subjects. we propose that an optical mirna-imaging strategy, based on molecular imaging, can be used as an mirna imaging detector to monitor various mirnas, by using different reporters, simultaneously, for high-throughput screening, and will provide potential application for the diagnosis and therapeutics of multiple diseases.
northern_blotting	small rnas (srnas) are short (similar to 50-200 nucleotides) noncoding rnas that regulate cellular activities across bacteria. salmonella enterica starved of a carbon-energy (c) source experience a host of genetic and physiological changes broadly referred to as the starvation-stress response (ssr). in an attempt to identify novel srnas contributing to ssr control, we grew log-phase, 5-h c-starved and 24-h c-starved cultures of the virulent salmonella enterica subspecies enterica serovar typhimurium strain sl1344 and comprehensively sequenced their small rna transcriptomes. strikingly, after employing a novel strategy for srna discovery based on identifying dynamic transcripts arising from ""gene-empty"" regions, we identify 58 wholly undescribed salmonella srna genes potentially regulating ssr averaging an similar to 1,000-fold change in expression between log-phase and c-starved cells. importantly, the expressions of individual srna loci were confirmed by both comprehensive transcriptome analyses and northern blotting of select candidates. of note, we find 43 candidate srnas share significant sequence identity to characterized srnas in other bacteria, and similar to 70% of our srnas likely assume characteristic srna structural conformations. in addition, we find 53 of our 58 candidate srnas either overlap neighboring mrna loci or share significant sequence complementarity to mrnas transcribed elsewhere in the sl1344 genome strongly suggesting they regulate the expression of transcripts via antisense base-pairing. finally, in addition to this work resulting in the identification of 58 entirely novel salmonella enterica genes likely participating in the ssr, we also find evidence suggesting that srnas are significantly more prevalent than currently appreciated and that salmonella srnas may actually number in the thousands.
human_metabolism	the mechanisms by which exposure to arsenic induces its myriad pathological effects are undoubtedly complex, while individual susceptibility to their type and severity is likely to be strongly influenced by genetic factors. human metabolism of arsenic into methylated derivatives, once presumed to result in detoxification, may actually produce species with significantly greater pathological potential. we introduce a transgenic drosophila model of arsenic methylation, allowing its consequences to be studied in a higher eukaryote exhibiting conservation of many genes and pathways with those of human cells while providing an important opportunity to uncover mechanistic details via the sophisticated genetic analysis for which the system is particularly well suited. the gene for the human enzyme, arsenic (+3 oxidation state) methyltransferase, was introduced into nonmethylating drosophila under inducible control. transgenic flies were characterized for enzyme inducibility, production of methylated arsenic species, and the dose-dependent consequences for chromosomal integrity and organismal longevity. upon enzyme induction, transgenic flies processed arsenite into mono and dimethylated derivatives identical to those found in human urine. when induced flies were exposed to 9 ppm arsenite, chromosomal stability was clearly reduced, whereas at much higher doses, adult life span was significantly increased, a seemingly paradoxical pair of outcomes. measurement of arsenic body burden in the presence or absence of methylation suggested that enhanced clearance of methylated species might explain this greater longevity under acutely toxic conditions. our study clearly demonstrates both the hazards and the benefits of arsenic methylation in vivo and suggests a resolution based on evolutionary grounds.
human_metabolism	purpose of review wasting diseases are characterized by progressive deterioration of nutritional status that negatively influences patients' outcome. the better understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of wasting may lead to effective therapies. tryptophan metabolism has unique features suggesting a critical role in influencing human metabolism under normal and pathological conditions. recent findings during disease, inflammatory response favours the local depletion of the essential amino acid tryptophan, thereby inhibiting cellular proliferation. tryptophan depletion may also mediate immunotolerance to foreign antigens. in contrast, brain accumulation of tryptophan contributes to wasting by increasing oxidative stress and hypothalamic serotonin neurotransmission, and thereby triggering the onset of sickness behaviour followed by depressive-like behaviour. summary tryptophan metabolism is critical in mediating a number of important biological responses. restoring tryptophan metabolism may well result in enhanced recovery from disease.
human_metabolism	human metabolism of di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (dehp) was studied after a single oral dose of 48.1 mg to a male volunteer. to avoid interference by background exposure the d4-ring-labelled dehp analogue was dosed. excretion of three metabolites, mono(2-ethyl-5-hydroxyhexyl)phthalate (5oh-mehp), mono(2-ethyl-5-oxohexyl)phthalate (5oxo-mehp) and mono(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (mehp), was monitored for 44 h in urine and for 8 h in serum. peak concentrations of all metabolites were found in serum after 2 h and in urine after 2 h (mehp) and after 4 h (5oh-mehp and 5oxo-mehp). while the major metabolite in serum was mehp, the major metabolite in urine was 5oh-mehp, followed by 5oxo-mehp and mehp. excretion in urine followed a multi-phase elimination model. after an absorption and distribution phase of 4 to 8 h, half-life times of excretion in the first elimination phase were approximately 2 h with slightly higher half-life times for 5oh- and 5oxo-mehp. half-life times in the second phase-beginning 14 to 18 h post dose-were 5 h for mehp and 10 h for 5oh-mehp and 5oxo-mehp. in the time window 36 to 44 h, no decrease in excreted concentrations of 5oh- and 5oxo-mehp was observed. in the first elimination phase (8 to 14 h post dose), mean excretion ratios of mehp to 5oxo-mehp and mehp to 5oh-mehp were 1 to 1.8 and 1 to 3.1. in the second elimination phase up to 24 h post dose mean excretion ratios of mehp to 5oxo-mehp to 5oh-mehp were 1 to 5.0 to 9.3. the excretion ratio of 5oh-mehp to 5oxo-mehp remained constant through time at 1.7 in the mean. after 44 h, 47% of the dehp dose was excreted in urine, comprising mehp (7.3%), 5oh-mehp (24.7%) and 5oxo-mehp (14.9%).
human_metabolism	during very low carbohydrate intake, the regulated and controlled production of ketone bodies causes a harmless physiological state known as dietary ketosis. ketone bodies flow from the liver to extra-hepatic tissues (e. g., brain) for use as a fuel; this spares glucose metabolism via a mechanism similar to the sparing of glucose by oxidation of fatty acids as an alternative fuel. in comparison with glucose, the ketone bodies are actually a very good respiratory fuel. indeed, there is no clear requirement for dietary carbohydrates for human adults. interestingly, the effects of ketone body metabolism suggest that mild ketosis may offer therapeutic potential in a variety of different common and rare disease states. also, the recent landmark study showed that a very-low-carbohydrate diet resulted in a significant reduction in fat mass and a concomitant increase in lean body mass in normal-weight men. contrary to popular belief, insulin is not needed for glucose uptake and utilization in man. finally, both muscle fat and carbohydrate burn in an amino acid flame. journal of the international society of sports nutrition. 1(2): 7-11, 2004.
human_metabolism	in order to provide additional information for risk assessment of the fungicide metalaxyl, the main objectives were (1) to elucidate the interactions of metalaxyl with different human liver cytochrorne, p450 enzymes, (2) to tentitatively identify and (semi)quantify metabolites in vitro and (3) to identify human cyp enzymes responsible for metabolism. the mean inhibitory concentrations (ic50) for 7-pentoxyresorufin-o-dealkylation (cyp2b) and bupropion hydroxylation (2b6) were 48.9 and 41.7 mu m, respectively. the biotransformation reactions were hydroxylation, (di)demethylation and lactone formation. in human liver microsomes predominant metabolites were two hydroxymetalaxyl derivatives or atropisomers of one of the derivatives. on the basis of previous rat studies these could be n-(2-hydroxymethyl-6-methylphenyl)-n-(methoxyacetyl)alanine methyl ester and/or n-(2,6-dimethyl-5-hydroxyphenyl)-n-(methoxyacetyl)alanine methyl ester. the amounts of didemethylmetalaxyl n-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)n-(hydroxyacetyl)alanine and lactone 4-(2,6-dimethylphenyl)-3-methylmorpholine-2,5-dione were higher in homogenates than microsomes. the carcinogenic 2,6-dimethylaniline was not detected. among the nine major human cyps, cyp3a4 was the only one responsible for metalaxyl hydroxylation, while cyp2b6 was the major isoform responsible for (di)demethylation and lactone formation. (c) 2006 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
polymerase_chain_reaction	the study aimed to polish wastewater effluent from an activated treatment system for nitrogen removal by a packed bed bioreactor (pbr). the nitrogen removal via simultaneous partial nitrification, anammox and denitrification (snad) process was investigated with different hydraulic retention times (hrts). the results show that both effluent ammonia-and nitrate-nitrogen concentrations approached to 0 mg/l at the hrt as low as 3 h. the total nitrogen removal efficiency decreased from an average of 84% at both 18- and 24-h hrts to 38% at 3-h hrt. this low nitrogen removal efficiency was due to the presence of incomplete degradation of organic nitrogen at shorter hrts. the analysis using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction resolves that the ratio of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (aob) to the domain eubacteria changed limited in the range between 2.8 and 4.0% during the continuous operation. meanwhile, the nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (nob) increased from 0.0 to 2.9% when the hrt was gradually reduced to 3 h. the anammox bacteria accounting for 30.5% of microbial consortia dominated the aob and the nob at the 3-h hrt. in sum, inorganic form of nitrogen in a typical wastewater plant effluent could be efficiently polished via snad process in the pbr. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
polymerase_chain_reaction	background: oridonin, the major terpene found in rabdosia rubescens (henmsl.) hara, is widely used as a dietary supplement and therapeutic drug. oridonin has been proven to possess good anti-tumour activity, but little is known about its effect on angiogenesis. the aim of this study was to investigate the antiangiogenic effects of oridonin in vivo and in vitro and prove that oridonin anti-tumour activity is based on suppressing angiogenesis. methods: in vitro, the antiangiogenesis effect was studied by proliferation, apoptosis, migration, invasion, and tube formation experiments on human umbilical vascular endothelial cells (huvecs). in vivo, using the tg (fli1: gfp) zebrafish model, the embryonic vasculogenesis and postnatal regeneration were evaluated. the vascular endothelial growth factor (vegf) signalling pathway gene expressions were assessed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr). furthermore, the inhibition effects on tumour growth and metastasis were observed using a xenograft zebrafish tumour model and xenograft nude mouse tumour model. angiogenesis was assayed by immunostaining with cluster of differentiation 31. importantly, the proteins were identified as being differentially expressed in an in vivo model by two-dimensional electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (2d-ms) and western blot (wb). results: the results indicated that oridonin inhibited huvec proliferation, migration, invasion, and tube formation and induced cell apoptosis. oridonin inhibited zebrafish angiogenesis during embryonic development and tail fin regeneration. rt-pcr showed that oridonin decreased the vegfa, vegfr2, and vegfr3 expressions in zebrafish, while the tp53 expression increased. moreover, oridonin had strong effects on tumour growth and metastasis in vivo. 2d-ms identified a total of 50 proteins differentially expressed (17 up-expressed, 28 down-expressed). lastly, wb showed that claudin 1, claudin 4, and claudin 7 were closely related to tumour growth and metastasis. conclusion: this study demonstrated that oridonin could inhibit tumour growth and metastasis, which mainly based on oridonin antiangiogenic effects. claudin 1, claudin 4, and claudin 7 were the main contributors to the mechanism.
polymerase_chain_reaction	background: the aim of the present study was to investigate the effects of the iron chelator deferiprone in diabetic nephropathy (dn) rats and the mechanisms involved. methods: thirty-two male wistar rats (180-220 g, 6 weeks old) were randomly divided into a control group, a dn group and two dn groups treated with either 50 or 100 mg/kg per day deferiprone. the dn group was established by feeding of a high-carbohydrate-fat diet and injection of 35 mg/kg streptozotocin into the vena caudalis. the duration of deferiprone treatment was 20 weeks. histopathological changes were detected by hematoxylin-eosin and masson staining, as well as transmission electron microscopy. levels of nuclear factor (nf)-kappa b, monocyte chemotactic protein (mcp)-1, matrix metalloproteinase (mmp)-9, tissue-specific inhibitor of metalloproteinase (timp)-1, cyclo-oxygenase (cox)-2, and nitrotyrosine were determined in kidney tissues using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (rt-pcr), western blotting, and immunohistochemistry. results: histopathological observations showed that deferiprone treatment alleviated inflammation infiltrates and collagenous fibrosis in dn rats. results from rt-pcr and western blotting indicated that deferiprone inhibited the expression of nf-kappa b, mcp-1, cox-2, and nitrotyrosine, which were overexpressed in dn rats. immunohistochemistry showed that the mechanism of deferiprone action may involve regulation of mmp-9 and timp-1. decreased mmp-9 expression and increased timp-1 expression in dn rats were significantly promoted and inhibited by deferiprone, respectively. conclusion: iron chelation by oral deferiprone has a renoprotective effect in dn rats by relieving oxidative stress, inflammation, and fibrosis, which is related to the cytokines nf-kappa b, mcp-1, mmp-9, timp-1, cox-2, and nitrotyrosine.
polymerase_chain_reaction	introductionthe etiological diagnosis of pleural effusion is a difficult task because the diagnostic tools can only establish a definitive etiological diagnosis in at most 76% of cases. objectivesto verify the diagnostic accuracy of the latex agglutination test (lat) for the etiological diagnosis of pleural effusions caused by streptococcus pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae type b. methodsafter thoracocentesis, paired fresh samples of pleural fluid from 418 children and adolescents were included in this investigation. they were tested blindly and simultaneously through counterimmunoelectrophoresis (cie) and lat for both bacteria. sensitivity, specificity, predictive values and likelihood ratios (lr) were calculated taking cie as a reference standard. resultsthe sensitivity and specificity of lat was 100% (95% confidence interval, 94.4%-100%) and 83.3% (95% confidence interval, 79.0%-87.0%), respectively, whereas the positive (calculated from bayes' theorem) and negative predictive values were, respectively, lower than 1% and 100% (95% confidence interval, 98.8%-100%). positive and negative lr were 6.0 (95% confidence interval, 4.7-7.6) and zero, respectively. conclusionsour results suggest that lat is a useful tool for the etiological diagnosis of pleural effusion. it is a reliable, rapid, simple to perform and shows an excellent yield in our studied population, helping to prescribe appropriate antibiotics for this clinical condition.
polymerase_chain_reaction	kisspeptins and g protein coupled receptor (gpr54) play significant roles in regulating reproductive activity among seasonally reproductive animals; however, the mechanisms of kiss-1 and gpr54 gene affecting the seasonal reproduction in striped hamster are still unknown. in this study, real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction was employed to examine the expression profiles of kiss-1 and gpr54 in the hypothalamus, ovaries, testes, uterus and epididymis of striped hamsters across 4 different seasons. our results showed that, across different seasons, the kiss-1 expression mode of male striped hamsters and the gpr54 expression mode of female striped hamsters were consistent with the seasonal photoperiod in the hypothalamus. meanwhile, across different seasons, the expression profile of kiss-1 in the testes and the gpr54 expression profile of male striped hamsters in the hypothalamus were consistent with the intensity of their seasonal reproductive activity. among different tissues, the expression trend for gpr54 is consistent across 4 seasons, while that for kiss-1 is tissue-dependent. the expression trend for gpr54 across 4 seasons is the same regardless of gender, while that for kiss-1 is dramatically different and sex-dependent across different seasons. these results suggest that the expressions of kiss-1 and gpr54 in the striped hamsters were regulated by complicated mechanisms, and the regulatory mechanisms in the striped hamsters are seasonal-dependent and sex-dependent. this research will provide a theoretical basis for studying how kiss-1 and gpr54 affect seasonal reproduction and the mechanisms behind their influence.
immunology	we investigated the presence of ectoparasites and hemoparasites in side-blotched lizards (uta stansburiana) across a large part of their range and measured how parasitic infection related to several key physiological indicators of health. blood samples were collected from 132 lizards from central arizona, southern utah, and eastern oregon. hemoparasites were found in 22 individuals (3.2% prevalence in arizona, 19.1% in utah, and 6.3% in oregon), and ectoparasites were found on 51 individuals (56.3% prevalence in arizona, 56.1% in utah, and 6.7% in oregon), with 11 individuals infected with both. hemoparasites and ectoparasites were found in all three states. immunocompetence was higher in individuals infected with both hemoparasites and ectoparasites. body condition, glucocorticoid levels, and reproductive investment were not related to infection status. our study provides evidence that parasitic infection is associated with an active immune system in wild reptiles but may not impose other costs usually associated with parasites.
immunology	internal energy reserves of animals are limited, and the current investment in reproduction often decreases survival or future reproductive success. some studies showed that copulatory activities impair the strength of immune function in insects, while the recent evidence is contradictory. in this study we tested whether copulatory activity affects the rate of encapsulation response in males of calopteryx splendens damselfly in allopatric populations, and in sympatric populations where c. splendens stay together with their superior competitor c. virgo. we also counted the number of eugregarines, which are common parasites of damselflies. copulation activity did not affect the immunity of c. splendens males in allopatric populations. in sympatric populations c. splendens males had more gut parasites, and we found a significant interaction between parasite number and copulatory activity on the rate of encapsulation. our results suggest that the costs of reproduction are higher in infected males, which may affect reproductive investment and sexual selection.
immunology	oral tolerance (ot) towards antigens encountered in the gut is a vital immune function of gut immunity. experimental models can demonstrate ot efficacy by feeding of a protein followed by peripheral immunization and measuring the specific antibody titer. we had previously shown that exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-pdioxin (tcdd), a xenobiotic high-affinity aryl hydrocarbon receptor (ahr)-ligand, destabilized ot against ovalbumin ( ova) in mice. ahr is involved in the development, differentiation and function of immune cells, and highly expressed in gut epithelial cells and gut immune cells. we here used ahr-deficient mice to study the role of ahr in ot further. we show that complete ahr-deficiency undermines the stability of oral tolerance against ova upon multiple immunizations, despite no renewed oral encounter with the antigen. this ot destabilization is accompanied by significant changes in il10 and tgf. rna in the gut tissue. using conditional ahr-deficient mouse lines, we identify t cells as the major responsible immune cell type in this context. our findings add to knowledge that lack of ahr signaling in the gut impairs important gut immune functions.
immunology	background respiratory illnesses are a leading cause of morbidity and medical discharge in the military. this study aimed to investigate the effects of baseline aerobic fitness on haematological, salivary and mood variables, and simultaneously, in a novel approach, to identify factors precipitating illness and attrition rate in recruits during military training. methods thirty-five healthy male recruits from an army training regiment undertaking 12 weeks of training were prospectively investigated. their 2.4 km run time (rt) was used as a surrogate of baseline aerobic fitness. saliva and venous blood samples were analysed for secretory iga, full blood counts and cell cytokine production (interleukin (il) 6 and il-8), respectively. each recruit completed questionnaires on mood profile, and gastrointestinal and upper respiratory tract symptoms (urts). results significant salivary and haematological perturbations were observed and coincided with increased duration of urts/week and mood disturbance over this military training period. from start to end: leucocyte count decreased by 28% (p<0.001); neutrophil percentage (%) decreased by 13% (p<0.01); lymphocyte % increased by 17% (p<0.05); the neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio decreased by 22% (p<0.01); eosinophil% increased by 71% (p<0.01). from start to mid to end: monocyte% increased by 68% at mid (p<0.01) but only by 30% at end (p<0.01); il-6 increased by 39% at mid (p<0.01) and a further 61% by end. the 2.4km rt was significantly associated with urts duration (p<0.01). in addition, a 1-min increase in 2.4km rt increased a recruit 's risk 9.8-fold of developing urts lasting, on average, 3.36 days/week. in recruits ranked with high-urts duration their rt was 48 s slower (p<0.01) than those with low-urts, and their attrition rate reached 45%. conclusions the least fit recruits may have found training more physically demanding as reflected in the higher urts duration, which may have led to a high attrition rate from the army. it is worth considering that baseline aerobic fitness might be an important factor in illness development and attrition rate in recruits during this type of military training.
immunology	introduction: the success of the vaccines available on the market has significantly increased interest in vaccine development.areas covered: the main aim of this paper is to discuss the most important vaccines of pediatric interest that are currently being developed. new pneumococcal vaccines and vaccines against group b streptococcus, staphylococcus aureus and respiratory syncytial virus are analyzed in detail.expert commentary: advances in understanding human immunology, including human monoclonal antibody identification, sequencing technology, and the ability to solve atomic level structures of vaccine targets have provided tools to guide the rational design of future vaccines. it is likely that some of these vaccines will reach the market in the future and will thus partially contribute to the prevention of very severe diseases that significantly affect the morbidity and mortality of children. however, further studies in animals and several clinical trials in children must be performed before new vaccines become licensed.
genetics	purpose of review we aimed to produce a comprehensive update on clinical and biological data regarding two rare lymphoid neoplasms, b and t prolymphocytic leukemias, and assess therapeutic management in the light of new molecular insights and the advent of targeted therapies. recent findings b cell prolymphocytic leukemia (b-pll) diagnosis remains challenging in the absence of clear immunophenotypic or cytogenetic signature and overlap with mantle cell lymphoma. new molecular defects have been identified in t cell prolymphocytic leukemia (t-pll), especially in the jak stat pathway. like in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll), b-pll treatment depends on the presence of tp53 dysfunction. in t-pll, alemtuzumab still remains the standard of care. allogeneic transplantation is the only curable option. thanks to reduced intensity conditioning regimens, it has become accessible to a larger number of patients. summary pll prognosis remains poor with conventional therapies. however, great advances in the understanding of both t-and b-pll pathogenesis lead to promising new therapeutic agents.
genetics	microneurographic recordings of human muscle sympathetic nerve activity responses to sudden sensory stimuli (ie, arousal) have revealed 2 intraindividually reproducible response profiles in healthy young males that predict different neural and blood pressure responses to more sustained stress. approximately 50% of subjects inhibit muscle sympathetic nerve activity during arousal, whereas the remaining 50% do not, and the latter group displays a markedly greater blood pressure increase in response to arousal, as well as during and after 3 minutes of mental arithmetic. studying a group of monozygotic twins (10 pairs, 2 excluded from analysis), the aim of the present study was to evaluate the degree of genetic determination of these sympathetic response profiles. muscle sympathetic burst incidence at rest was similar in twins, with a within-pair burst incidence ratio of 0.87 +/- 0.02 (sem) compared with 0.73 +/- 0.07 found in unrelated pairs (p= 0.002), confirming a previous study from our laboratory. in contrast, the sympathetic responses to arousal showed large twin within-pair variance (arousal inhibition ratio 0.56 +/- 0.11), which did not significantly differ (p= 0.939) from the variance in pairs of unrelated subjects (0.46 +/- 0.11). the finding that human muscle sympathetic nerve responses to arousal are less determined by genotype than the resting level of corresponding sympathetic nerve activity suggests that the arousal response pattern is more prone to be altered by environmental factors. this raises the possibility that these intraindividually reproducible sympathetic neural response profiles can be modified in a positive direction from a cardiovascular risk perspective.
genetics	the genetic differentiation among the populations of the european abalone haliotis tuberculata was investigated using different markers to better understand the evolutionary history and exchanges between populations. three markers were used: mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase i (coi), the sperm lysin nuclear gene, and eight nuclear microsatellites. these markers present different characteristics concerning mutation rate and inheritance, which provided complementary information about abalone history and gene diversity. genetic diversity and relationships among subspecies were calculated from a sample of approximately 500 individuals, collected from 17 different locations in the north-eastern atlantic ocean, macaronesia, and mediterranean sea. coi marker was used to explore the phylogeny of the species with a network analysis and two phylogenetic methods. the analysis revealed 18 major haplotypes grouped into two distinct clades with a pairwise sequence divergence up to 3.5 %. these clades do not correspond to subspecies but revealed many contacts along atlantic coast during the pleistocene interglaciations. the sperm lysin gene analysis separated two different subtaxa: one associated to macaronesian islands, and the other to all other populations. moreover, a small population of the northern subtaxon was isolated in the adriatic seaprobably before the separation of the two lineages-and evolved independently. microsatellites were analyzed by different genetics methods, including the bayesian clustering method and migration patterns analysis. it revealed genetically distinct microsatellite patterns among populations from mediterranean sea, brittany and normandy, morocco, and canary and balearic islands. gene flow is asymmetric among the regions; the azores and the canary islands are particularly isolated and have low effective population sizes. our results support the hypothesis that climate changes since the pleistocene glaciations have played a major role in the geographic distribution of the european abalone. traces of these events related to maternal inheritance were shown on coi marker.
genetics	the patella is a sesamoid bone located in the major extensor tendon of the knee joint, in the hindlimb of many tetrapods. although numerous aspects of knee morphology are ancient and conserved among most tetrapods, the evolutionary occurrence of an ossified patella is highly variable. among extant (crown clade) groups it is found in most birds, most lizards, the monotreme mammals and almost all placental mammals, but it is absent in most marsupial mammals as well as many reptiles. here, we integrate data from the literature and first-hand studies of fossil and recent skeletal remains to reconstruct the evolution of the mammalian patella. we infer that bony patellae most likely evolved between four and six times in crown group mammalia: in monotremes, in the extinct multituberculates, in one or more stem-mammal genera outside of therian or eutherian mammals and up to three times in therian mammals. furthermore, an ossified patella was lost several times in mammals, not including those with absent hindlimbs: once or more in marsupials (with some re-acquisition) and at least once in bats. our inferences about patellar evolution in mammals are reciprocally informed by the existence of several human genetic conditions in which the patella is either absent or severely reduced. clearly, development of the patella is under close genomic control, although its responsiveness to its mechanical environment is also important (and perhaps variable among taxa). where a bony patella is present it plays an important role in hindlimb function, especially in resisting gravity by providing an enhanced lever system for the knee joint. yet the evolutionary origins, persistence and modifications of a patella in diverse groups with widely varying habits and habitats-from digging to running to aquatic, small or large body sizes, bipeds or quadrupeds-remain complex and perplexing, impeding a conclusive synthesis of form, function, development and genetics across mammalian evolution. this meta-analysis takes an initial step toward such a synthesis by collating available data and elucidating areas of promising future inquiry.
genetics	given the strong selective pressures often faced by populations when colonizing a novel habitat, the level of variation present on which selection may act is an important indicator of adaptive potential. while often discussed in an ecological context, this notion is also highly relevant in our clinical understanding of viral infection, in which the novel habitat is a new host. thus, quantifying the factors determining levels of variation is of considerable importance for the design of improved treatment strategies. here, we focus on such a quantification of human cytomegalovirus (hcmv) - a virus which can be transmitted across the placenta, resulting in foetal infection that can potentially cause severe disease in multiple organs. recent studies using genomewide sequencing data have demonstrated that viral populations in some congenitally infected infants diverge rapidly over time and between tissue compartments within individuals, while in other infants, the populations remain highly stable. here, we investigate the underlying causes of these extreme differences in observed intrahost levels of variation by estimating the underlying demographic histories of infection. importantly, reinfection (i.e. population admixture) appears to be an important, and previously unappreciated, player. we highlight illustrative examples likely to represent a single-population transmission from a mother during pregnancy and multiple-population transmissions during pregnancy and after birth.
cell_biology	dozens of murine models of indolent and aggressive b-cell lymphomas have been generated to date. these include those manifesting chronic lymphocytic leukemia (cll), diffuse large b-cell lymphoma (dlbcl), as well as xenografts of mantle cell lymphoma (mcl). these models have led to an improved understanding of disease etiology, b-cell biology, immunomodulation, and the importance of the tumor microenvironment. despite these efforts in cll, dlbcl, and mcl, considerably little progress toward a model of splenic marginal zone lymphoma (smzl) has been accomplished. herein, we describe the similarities and differences between cll, mcl, and smzl and highlight effective murine models that mimic disease in the two former, in hopes of informing a potential model of the latter. at the time of writing this review, the precise molecular events of smzl remain to be determined and a treatment regimen remains to be identified. therefore, based on the efforts put forth in the b-cell lymphoma field throughout the past three decades, the established role of caveolin-1 in b-and t-cell biology as an oncogene or tumor suppressor, and the recurrent deletion or loss of heterozygosity (loh) of 7q in many cancers, we make recommendations for a murine model of smzl.
cell_biology	phylogeny is often used to compare entire families of genes/proteins. we previously showed that classification of caenorhabditis elegans rho gtpases on the basis of their enzymatic properties was significantly different from sequence alignments. to further develop this concept, we have developed an integrated approach to classify c. elegans small gtpases based on functional data comprising affinity for gtp, sub-cellular localization, tissue distribution and silencing impact. this analysis led to establish a novel functional classification for small gtpases. to test the relevance of this classification in mammals, we focused our attention on the human orthologs of small gtpases from a specific group comprising arf- 1.2, evl-20, arl-1, y54e10br. 2, unc-108 and rab-7. we then tested their involvement in protein secretion and membrane traffic in mammalian systems. using this approach we identify a novel network containing 18 gtpases, and 23 functionally interacting proteins, conserved between c. elegans and mammals, which is involved in membrane traffic and protein secretion.
cell_biology	autophagy is a highly conserved catabolic process, whereby unwanted cytoplasmic contents are enclosed by the double-membrane autophagosomes and delivered to the lysosomes for degradation. it is responsible for the recycling of nutrients and cellular components, thus playing a pivotal role in maintaining cellular homeostasis as well as cell survival during stress conditions. perturbations in autophagy are implicated in multiple diseases, such as cancers and neuro-degeneration diseases. recent studies demonstrate that autophagy may participate in almost every step of immune responses, including pathogen recognition, antigen processing and presentation, immune cell development and function, and immunoregulation. the pathogenesis of some autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis and crohn 's disease, has been reported to be associated with dysregulated autophagy. systemic lupus erythematosus (sle) is a chronic, potentially fatal autoimmune disease, characterized by dysregulation of immune cells and production of autoantibodies that cause widespread tissue and organ damage. the pathogenesis of sle remains unclear. with several single nucleotide polymorphisms (snps) in autophagy-related gene5 (atg5) being linked to sle susceptibility, more and more lines of evidence from animal model, cell biology, immunology, and genetics studies show that autophagy contributes to the occurrence, development, and severity of sle. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
cell_biology	experiences and environments have a variety of effects on brain plasticity at levels ranging from the molecular and cellular to the behavioral. brain plasticity is one of the most important characteristics of animal survival. in particular, environmental enrichment and exercise induce many structural and functional changes in the brain, and it is noteworthy that these changes result in further beneficial effects at behavioral levels, such as improved learning behavior and antidepressant effects. the effects of enrichment and exercise, and the mechanisms involved in both, provide crucial evidence for the prevention and treatment of brain disorders. however, the enriched environment- and exercise-induced mechanisms underlying the structural and behavioral effects in the brain remain poorly understood. in this review i discuss the molecular mechanisms of environment-and experience-dependent brain plasticity based on the results of studies carried out by our research group at the department of neuroscience and cell biology, osaka university. this review consists of three parts: first, a description of a role for the motor protein kif1a in enhanced synaptogenesis and memory function induced by environmental enrichment; second, a discussion of the function of the 5-ht3 receptor in hippocampal neurogenesis and behavioral changes induced by exercise; third, a discussion of the role of the 5-ht3 receptor in fear extinction.
cell_biology	proteomics studies have identified ste20-related proline/alanine-rich kinase (spak) and oxidative stress response 1 (osr1) in exosomes isolated from body fluids such as blood, saliva, and urine. because proteomics studies likely overestimate the number of exosome proteins, we sought to confirm and extend this observation using traditional biochemical and cell biology methods. we utilized hek293 cells in culture to verify the packaging of these ste20 kinases in exosomes. using a series of centrifugation and filtration steps of conditioned culture medium isolated from hek293 cells, we isolated nanovesicles in the range of 40-100 nm. we show that these small vesicles express the tetraspanin protein cd63 and lack endoplasmic reticulum and golgi markers, consistent with these being exosomes. we show by western blot and immunogold analyses that these exosomes express spak, osr1, and na-k-cl cotransporter 1 (nkcc1). we show that exosomes are not only secreted by cells, but also accumulated by adjacent cells. indeed, exposing cultured cells to exosomes produced by other cells expressing a fluorescently labeled kinase resulted in the kinase finding its way into the cytoplasm of these cells, consistent with the idea of exosomes serving as cell-to-cell communication vessels. similarly, coculturing cells expressing different fluorescently tagged proteins resulted in the exchange of proteins between cells. in addition, we show that both spak and osr1 kinases entering cells through exosomes are preferentially expressed at the plasma membrane and that the kinases in exosomes are functional and maintain nkcc1 in a phosphorylated state.
