green_building	this research is based on taiwan 's first zero-carbon green building-magic school of green technology in national cheng kung university. actual energy consumption will be measured to explore benefits of energy-saving. the design origin for this building encompasses 13 green energy-saving techniques. united states department of energy dynamic building energy analytical software, equest, is used to execute the strictest energy consumption analytical assessment. it is forecasted to reach an energy-saving efficiency of 65% with energy use intensity (eui) of 43 kwh/m(2).yr for the whole building, far below that of 169 kwh/m(2).yr found in taiwan low/mid-rise office buildings. this building has begun operation in 2011, through actual readings from building energy management system (bems) during january to september, first-half-year accumulated eui of 33.5 kwh/m(2).yr against equest analytical assessment of 38.2 kwh/m(2).yr for the same period. demonstrating that equest analytical assessed value is very consistent with building 's actual energy consumption readings. the energy consumption standard in the experimental research behind the magic school of green technology stands at world class.
green_building	the development of building material science in the light of such flows as green building, architectural geonics, the concept of sustainable development poses new challenges for researchers, one of which is the human environment comfort improvement. comfort is closely related to a premise microclimate, which is formed as the result of heating and ventilation system interaction with the building materials of wall structures. traditionally, the role of building materials in this interaction is a passive one and is characterized by two properties: thermal conductivity and vapor permeability. a further increase in the efficiency of engineering systems is not possible without the inclusion of building materials in this process as an active component. it is known that the radiation heat exchange plays an important role in the distribution of energy indoors. this heat exchange takes place between the surfaces in the infrared range. moreover, the work of radiant heating systems is based on this principle. it has significant advantages as compared with traditional ones and has great prospects concerning the energy consumption reduction for heating. in this regard, they studied the issues of composite development which have a particular interaction character with a particular spectrum of infrared light.
green_building	in order to study the evolution mechanism and forecast the development direction of green building market, this paper establishes a model of asymmetric evolutionary game in the green building market by using the idea of evolutionary game firstly. then the dynamic equations of the two strategies are set up by using the idea of ""replicator dynamics"" in evolution game. lastly the evolutionary game equilibrium model is established. the analysis results show that (build green, buy green),(build non green, buy non green) are the two evolutionary stable situations. through the empirical analysis, the development of green building in our country is divided into three development stages. and through analyzing the evolution characteristics of each stage, the evolution mechanism and development trend of green building in our country are obtained.
green_building	this paper explores the role of international partnerships to facilitate low-energy building design, construction, and operations. we briefly discuss multiple collaboration models and the levels of impact they support. we present a case study of one collaborative partnership model, the scientific planning support (sps) team. staff from the lawrence berkeley national laboratory, the austrian institute of technology, and nanyang technological university formed the sps team to provide design assistance and process support during the design phase of a low-energy building project. specifically, the sps team worked on the cleantech two project, a tenanted laboratory and office building that seeks green mark platinum, the highest green building certification in singapore. the sps team hosted design charrettes, helped to develop design alternatives, and provided suggestions on the design process in support of this aggressive energy target. this paper describes these efforts and discusses how teams like the sps team and other partnership schemes can be leveraged to achieve high performance, low-energy buildings at an international scale. specifically, it discusses how international institutional partnerships build capacity for low-energy design, challenge the status quo for building design, and create new resources in support of energy savings on the order of 40%. (c) 2014 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
green_building	the objectives of this study are to identify the risks in green retrofit projects in singapore; analyze their risk criticalities; compare the risk criticalities between conventional and green retrofit projects; and provide mitigation measures for the critical risks. twenty risks and 37 mitigation measures were identified from a literature review. a questionnaire survey was performed with 30 professionals experienced in green retrofits, and five post-survey interviews were conducted. the results indicated post-retrofit tenants' cooperation risk was the top risk, and that 19 risks were more critical in green retrofits than in conventional retrofits. additionally, 28 mitigation measures obtained significant agreement.
water_pollution	china has become the world largest paper and paperboard producer. however, pulp and paper industry has involved high resource consumption and severe pollution especially for water. this research has assessed the eco-efficiency of china 's pulp and paper industry at the national level and provincial level. an overview regarding the cleaner production of china 's pulp and paper industry was presented to reveal the measures for reducing environmental impact in the last two decades. slacks-based measure was used to analyze the efficiency levels of 16 provinces' pulp and paper industries. to uncover the underlying causes of eco-efficiency performance, malmquist-luenberger index was calculated to discover the drivers of productivity growth of pulp and paper industries. our results showed that the pollution treatment of china 's pulp and paper industry has made progress in terms of water consumption and water pollution, although the absolute amount of pollution discharge is still large. chemical oxygen demand emissions are still the first critical influencing factor of pulp and paper industry 's inefficiency. furthermore, efficiency progress was the dominating contribution of the industry 's productivity growth between 2010 and 2013. the policies for adjusting the industrial structure of pulp and paper industry have resulted in the scale effects through eliminating backward production capacity and accelerating merger and acquisitions. moreover, the productivity of pulp and paper industry was underestimated when the undesirable outputs were ignored. it indicates that the stricter environmental regulations have positive effects on paper companies to internalize environmental pressures in the production activities through environmental management. in the future, pulp and paper companies should further internalize the cost of pollution treatment through scale effects and technology improvement. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
water_pollution	many-year variations of water pollution and the state of more than two hundred of rivers (or their segments) in different latitudinal zones in european russia are estimated. in accordance with latitudinal zonality, space and time trends in variations of water quality and the state of rivers are identified. by the level of water pollution, most river ecosystems (or their segments) were classified as polluted and very polluted, very polluted and dirty, dirty and very dirty. a tendency toward water quality improvement could be seen in the recent decade. more than 50% of the examined river ecosystems are at the transitional state of passing from natural (and/or equilibrium) to crisis state.
water_pollution	liquid marbles are drops coated with a hydrophobic powder. different liquid marbles can be easily distinguished by the diverse color appearance. here, we first demonstrate colorful liquid marbles, which were encapsulated with colored superhydrophobic stearate powders. a simple method was used to generate colorful superhydrophobic stearate powders via chemical reactions between sodium stearate and inorganic salts. in addition, the contact angle meter was used to monitor the horizontal profiles of liquid marbles to investigate the lifetime of liquid marbles on the stainless steel surface at room conditions. more important, we have described a proof of qualitative detection of oil pollution and measured the minimum detection limit of some water-soluble pollutants by liquid marbles.
water_pollution	the goal of this study is to examine waste water of leather plants within the province of usak city. we conducted analyses during morning and evening hours during the summer and following the greater eid during which volume of waste water from usak leather organized industry is low and high, respectively. analyses were carried out using waste water from 4 different sections of the facility. waste water analysis was conducted using waste water from treatment center entrance, after chemical treatment, using waste water subjected to biological treatment and waste water exiting the facility. suspended solid matter, chemical oxygen requirement, color, total nitrogen, phosphate phosphorus, total chrome, ph, turbidity and grease content of waste water from those sections were analyzed. when comparing waste water exiting and entering the facility based on discharge standards stated in water pollution control regulations, it has been determined that the facility enabled lower numbers in pollution during both low and high intensity periods and values were lower compared to facility entrance after chemical and biological treatment. as a result, it is evident that treatment facilities are necessary for protecting natural water resources and health from negative effects of the leather industry and that the facility minimizes the effect of leather industry waste on nature thereby preventing any disruption on the ecosystem.
water_pollution	in this study, the association between heavy metals in water and cyprinids sampled from the yeilrmak river stretch, which is frequently exposed to pollutant sources (a sugar production factory (turhal) and solid wastes dump area (talciftlik) was explored, and the oxidative effects of heavy metals on cyprinids were evaluated through analyzing some liver enzymes, namely, superoxide dismutase (sod), catalase (cat), malondialdehyde (mda), and cortisol. the heavy metal concentrations of both fish and water, collected from three different locations along the river during the summer of 2011 and winter of 2010 (turhal, talciftlik, and gumenek), were determined by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy (icp-aes). the water and fish liver heavy metal concentrations exhibited increasing trends from upstream (gumenek) to downstream (turhal). the water and liver samples collected during the summer had higher heavy metal concentrations than those obtained during the winter. the mean heavy metal concentrations increased from gumenek to turhal. the liver heavy metal concentrations were higher than those in the water and exhibited almost the same increasing trend from gumenek to turhal. positive relationships between liver and water heavy metal concentrations, especially for cadmium (r-2 = 0.91) and lead (r-2 = 0.98), were obtained. among the liver enzymes, only mda followed the same increasing trend from gumenek to turhal as was obtained for heavy metals. on the other hand, cat and sod had a contrary spatial pattern of change to those of heavy metals and mda. although the values of heavy metals and mda in talciftlik were between the two other locations, fish inhabiting this locality had significantly higher values of cortisol, which is an indication of the other stress-causing factors for fish.
smart_material	the interface of enabling technology with advanced product design has shown radical development in the field of intelligent sensor-embedded system design. numerous applications are envisaged exploiting this interconnectivity, particularly, in the field of biomedical applications. a need, for example, that is of growing demand, is in the field of remote health monitoring and control of critically ill patients, with the help of networked sensors. the continuous monitoring of the health of a patient in a hospital, information fusion from multiple sensor-data as well as broadcasting the recorded data on a network for the ease of access to the clinician and implementing the decisions of clinicians through automated drug delivery units could save millions of precious lives in a country with limited medical experts. in what follows is a brief detailed description of such a system that is developed.
smart_material	this article describes the development and validation of a new thermomechanically coupled multi-layered shape memory alloy beam finite element. the finite element is formulated, assuming coupled equilibrium equations for the mechanical and thermal problems. the constitutive shape memory alloy model of lagoudas and coworkers is implemented in the formulation. multi-field kinematic hypotheses are proposed, combining a first-order shear displacement field with a sixth-order polynomial temperature field through the thickness of the beam, enabling adequate representation of the temperature and phase transformation profiles due to rapid thermal loading, uneven thermal loading, and boundary conditions and multi-layered configurations with variable thermal properties. the non-linear transient discretized equations of motion of the shape memory alloy beam are synthesized and solved using the newton-raphson method with an implicit time integration scheme. numerical results illustrate the time response of uniform and bi-layered niti beams under various thermomechanical loads predicted by the developed finite element. correlations of the beam element predictions with those of plane stress two-dimensional finite element shape memory alloy models demonstrate excellent agreement in the calculated displacement, temperature, and phase transformation fields. additionally, the developed beam finite element yields computationally fast simulations providing an effective tool for the design and simulation of rod, beam, and strip shape memory alloy actuators and active structures.
smart_material	in this study, healing of conventional non-shape memory syntactic foam embedded with shape memory polyurethane fibers was investigated per the biomimetic close-then-heal strategy. the syntactic foam was made of epoxy matrix dispersed with 30% by volume of glass microballoons, 5% by volume of shape memory polyurethane fibers, and three levels of thermoplastic healing agent (5%, 10%, and 15% by volume). notched beam specimens were prepared and fractured by tension to create macroscopic cracks. three levels of tensile stresses (26.5, 24.5, and 22.5kpa) were applied to the fractured beam specimens during healing, in order to evaluate the healing capability of the composite under in-service conditions. it is found that the tensile stress level and healing agent content have a significant effect on the healing efficiency. subjected to 22.5kpa of tensile stress, the healing efficiency determined by peak tensile load is as high as 90%.
smart_material	magnetic shape memory alloy (msma) is a relatively new kind of smart material. upon application of a large magnetic field, it exhibits actuation strains up to 10% similar to thermal shape memory alloy (sma) but shows significantly reduced response time in the millisecond range. currently, application is restricted by the brittleness of the single crystal material, its nonlinear behaviour and the difficulty to generate and apply a magnetic field around 0.6t in order to exploit the full actuation potential. the focus of this work is on the design of miniaturized magnetic circuits for bulk msmas. various circuit designs are compared such as toroidal and series-parallel shapes. equivalent circuit as well as finite element simulation is used to increase the magnetic field in a characteristic air gap where the smart material is placed. a symmetrical toroid coil layout with the msma element at the center that allows easy integration of the actuator in various applications is described. static characterization results of this actuator are provided. using the described magnetic circuit and 5m - msma rods with dimensions of 20x2.5x1mm(3), a peak displacement of 0.8mm and a blocked force of 4.5n was obtained. further design guidelines for such miniaturized actuators are given.
smart_material	the purpose of this paper is to investigate the flexible structure of parabolic shell using photo strictive actuators. the analysis is made to know its dynamic behavior and light-induced control forces for coupled parabolic shell. the effects of an actuator location as well as membrane and bending components under the control action have been analyzed considering the approximate spherical model. the parabolic membrane shell accuracy is being mathematically approximated and validated comparing the light induced control forces using approximate equivalent spherical shell model. the parabolic shell with kapton smart material and photostrictive actuators has been used to formulate the governing equation in the transverse direction. the kirchhoff-love assumptions are used to obtain the governing equation of shell with actuator. the mechanical membrane forces and bending moments for parabolic thin shell with actuator is used to analyze the dynamic effect. the results show that membrane control action is much more significant than bending control action. photostrictive actuators oriented along circumferential direction (actuator-2) can give better control effect than actuators placed along longitudinal direction (actuator-1). the slight difference is observed between spherical and parabolic shell for a surface with focal length to the diameter ratio of 1.00 or more than unity. space applications often have the shape of parabolical shells or shell of revolution, due to their required focusing, aiming, or reflecting performance. the present approach is focused that photostrictive actuators can effectively control the vibration of parabolical membrane shell. also, the actuator 's location plays an important role in defming the control force.
ambient_intelligence	the ageing of the population, and their increasing wish of living independently, are motivating the development of welfare and healthcare models. existing approaches based on the direct heath-monitoring using body sensor networks (bsn) are precise and accurate. nonetheless, their intrusiveness causes non-acceptance. new approaches seek the indirect monitoring through monitoring activities of daily living (adls), which proves to be a suitable solution. adl monitoring systems use many heterogeneous sensors, are less intrusive, and are less expensive than bsn, however, the deployment and maintenance of wireless sensor networks (wsn) prevent them from a widespread acceptance. in this work, a novel technique to monitor the human activity, based on non-intrusive load monitoring (nilm), is presented. the proposal uses only smart meter data, which leads to minimum intrusiveness and a potential massive deployment at minimal cost. this could be the key to develop sustainable healthcare models for smart homes, capable of complying with the elderly people' demands. this study also uses the dempster-shafer theory to provide a daily score of normality with regard to the regular behavior. this approach has been evaluated using real datasets and, additionally, a benchmarking against a gaussian mixture model approach is presented.
ambient_intelligence	this paper presents design and implementation of a personal intelligent home media center. the primary goal was to increase the quality of life with the use of ambient intelligence in smart homes. the solution presented here uses client-server architecture with network-attached storage for storing all multimedia contents. sensors are used to identify person 's presence and ambient intelligence techniques to recommend the most suitable multimedia content to end-users. the major advantages of this personal intelligent home media center are speed, intelligence, inexpensive components and scalability. the implementation was done in within one home media center, for the evaluation purposes.
ambient_intelligence	research regarding stroke indicates that short elapsed time between accident and treatment can be fundamental to allow saving patient 's life and avoid future sequels. this paper describes a model for monitoring and rescue victims in situations of possible stroke occurrence. it uses stroke symptoms that can be monitored by mobile equipment, ambient intelligence and artificial neural networks. the model is independent from human operation and applications or third parties devices, therefore adding facilities to increase the quality of life for people with stroke sequel, due to constant monitoring and follow-up provided, allowing the stroke patient to consider a recovery period with greater autonomy. a prototype based on free software platforms was developed, in order to assess the accuracy and the time elapsed between the prototype to detect and to send an alert. the results indicate a positive outlook for the work continuity.
ambient_intelligence	we present easyhouse, a system developed to allow people with disabilities and their family members to control their home environment (e.g., turn on/off a light, turn on/off the tv) using a smartphone. the user interface was designed to be adjustable to the needs of each user. the development of easyhouse followed an iterative user-centered design approach. a paper-based low-fidelity prototype was built based on user requirements and from the first author 's own experience as a researcher with cerebral palsy. after several design and evaluation iterations, a functional prototype has been evaluated in a real context with real users. preliminary results indicate that the proposed system is suitable for both people with and without motor disabilities, and provides an adequate method for controlling home appliances when there is a family member with motor disabilities.
ambient_intelligence	human activity recognition has been widely studied since the last decade in ambient intelligence scenarios. remarkable progresses have been made in this domain, especially in research lines such as ambient assisted living, gesture recognition, behaviour detection and classification, etc. most of the works in the literature focus on activity classification or recognition, prediction of future events, or anomaly detection and prevention. however, it is hard to find approaches that do not only recognize an activity, but also provide an evaluation of its performance according to an optimality criterion. this problem is of special interest in applications such as sports performance evaluation, physical therapy, etc. in this work, we address the problem of the evaluation of such human activities in monitored environments using depth sensors. in particular, we propose a system able to provide an automatic evaluation of the correctness in the performance of activities involving motion, and more specifically, diagnosis exercises in physical therapy.
construction_management	time, cost, and quality (tcq) as a triple constraint of construction projects have dependent and conflicting objectives. considering the limited resources, estimation of the approximate tcq is a complex and dynamic problem. in addition, the uncertain nature of construction projects and highly variable alternatives make the decision making process a complicated issue. in order to overcome these difficulties, many researchers in the related academic literature introduced different mathematical models on the tcq trade-off problem so far. in these models, two different approaches were used to estimate tcq-related data. in the continues approach, it was assumed that the relationship among these three components could be expressed by continuous functions. in the discrete approach, it was accepted that (i) the construction method, (ii) the crew formation, and (iii) the crew overtime policy have some impacts on the project tcq and that the relationships among these three components become discrete. however, in previous studies, construction materials that have a significant impact on tcq of construction activities and projects were not taken into account completely during the data formation process. as an exception, el rayes and kandil [1] considered different strengths of concrete as material alternatives in a highway construction project. in fact, all the studies focused on proving the applicability of different optimization techniques instead of optimizing tcq of a real construction project. in this context, some simple projects including a limited number of activities were used to evaluate the applicability of the developed models. therefore, in the present study, it is aimed to outline a new two-step methodology, including the alternative construction material utilization, for tcq trade-off problems, especially for building projects which enable the utilization of the high variety of construction materials. for this purpose, the impact of construction materials on tcq of a project was explained in a detailed manner. (c) 2016 the authors. published by elsevier ltd.
construction_management	construction management is a practice oriented field and its course content needs to include many elements from practice. many new developments take place, new technologies emerge and the necessity of redefining working dynamics among project stakeholders necessitates construction educators to constantly evaluate and reorganize the scope of courses. this situation justifies the necessity of bringing research findings into classroom. the paper exemplifies how research findings are brought into a major construction course. project management course at the university of texas at san antonio covers broad range of topics such as fundamental concepts of management and roles in the construction industry, project delivery and contract methods, detailed analysis and administration of different phases of a construction project. the demand for sustainable projects is growing. its delivery method requires lots of input from wide range of experts. so far, there is no set or accepted method for sustainable building project delivery. during the coverage of project delivery methods, the instructor brings the characteristics of a sustainable projects. the comparative analysis is made between conventional and sustainable projects. the phases of sustainable projects include many additional elements and early involvement of defined tasks from phases of conventional projects. a recent research study accomplished by the author highlights the differentiating aspects of conventional projects from sustainable projects. the findings obtained from a research that is conducted with the major national firms will be incorporated to future lectures. the research has explored the sustainable delivery practices of the major national construction firms. they will be used as a case study to complement the theoretical part of the lecture. the impact on students' learning will be identified. students appreciate and value the knowledge brought outside the textbook especially if the research is original and accomplished by the course instructor. the approach can be taken as an example for various topics which are recent to aec industry.
construction_management	in recent years, in response to higher construction industry standards for project design and delivery under budget, time and safety constraints, technological advances have dramatically changed how design and construction information is represented and managed. to prepare students to respond to these new industry demands approaches to teaching dynamic construction planning and management practices are changing. as a result, simulation games are gaining interest as an approach to providing students with learning experiences better aligned with complex problems in the areas of construction bidding, planning and management. however, while the use of simulation games in teaching construction shows some promising results, it remains sporadic due to high development costs, implementation challenges, and uncertainty of their effectiveness as learning tools. to address this gap, we developed and evaluated a free and open-source construction management game-the virtual construction simulator (vcs)-that involves teaching a more holistic decision making process to planning and managing construction projects. this paper discusses the learning objectives that guided vcs3 development, implementation and assessment, and concludes with findings and recommendations for its broader implementation and future research.
construction_management	after introducing main principles of transitive closure of graphs the paper discusses application of a modified floyd-warshall algorithm to calculate network time models of projects with no concern on whether the graph has one or more starting and/or ending node(s), whether it includes logical loop(s) or not, whether it is a connected model or not, whether it necessitates positive (lower bound) or negative (upper bound) or multiple restrictions amongst the time data of the project elements or not that is: to schedule open networks. the method may contribute to generalization of network time models especially when considered in multi project management context. (c) 2016 the authors. published by elsevier ltd.
construction_management	wide spread monitoring cameras on construction sites provide large amount of information for construction management. the emerging of computer vision and machine learning technologies enables automated recognition of construction activities from videos. as the executors of construction, the activities of construction workers have strong impact on productivity and progress. compared to machine work, manual work is more subjective and may differ largely in operation flow and productivity among different individuals. hence only a handful of work studies on vision based action recognition of construction workers. lacking of publicly available datasets is one of the main reasons that currently hinder advancement. the paper studies worker actions comprehensively, abstracts 11 common types of actions from 5 kinds of trades and establishes a new real world video dataset with 1176 instances. for action recognition, a cutting-edge video description method, dense trajectories, has been applied. support vector machines are integrated with a bag-of-features pipeline for action learning and classification. performances on multiple types of descriptors (histograms of oriented gradients - hog, histograms of optical flow - hof, motion boundary histogram - mbh) and their combination have been evaluated. discussion on different parameter settings and comparison to the state-of-the-art method are provided. experimental results show that the system with codebook size 500 and mbh descriptor has achieved an average accuracy of 59% for worker action recognition, outperforming the state-of-the-art result by 24%. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
suspension_bridge	the ability to accurately predict traffic loading is essential for cost-effective bridge maintenance and repair programs. the traffic load model currently used in the united states for the design of long-span bridges was developed over three decades ago. in the meantime, vehicle characteristics and traffic patterns have changed. the eurocode for traffic loading is more recent, but was calibrated only for bridges up to 200 m long. in this work, weigh-in-motion traffic records from 11 different sites across alabama are used to establish congested traffic loading. traffic microsimulation is used to generate congestion based on real traffic data. influence lines for two typical long-span bridges, one cable-stayed bridge, and one suspension bridge are determined using finite-element models. these are used in the microsimulation model to estimate the bridge-load effects caused by congested traffic. these results are extrapolated to find the characteristic lifetime maximum values that are used to evaluate the eurocode load model to assess its suitability for long-span bridges. in a similar way, the current american load model for long-span bridges, commonly known as the asce model, is evaluated to see if it accurately reflects the congested traffic loading that is currently found on american highways. recent research has suggested the use of the aashto hl-93 load model to estimate the effects of traffic loading on long-span bridges, and this model is also evaluated in this work.
suspension_bridge	background: pseudoparalysis is defined as active forward flexion less than 90 degrees with full passive motion. there is controversy about the ideal surgical management of a massive rotator cuff tear with pseudoparalysis. purpose/hypothesis: the purpose of this study was to prospectively analyze the ability to reverse pseudoparalysis with an arthroscopic rotator cuff repair (arcr). the hypothesis was that in the absence of substantial glenohumeral arthritis, preoperative fatty infiltration of grade 3 or higher and an acromiohumeral interval (ahi) of less than 7 mm would not prevent reversal of pseudoparalysis with an arcr. study design: case series; level of evidence, 4. methods: a prospective multicenter study of arcr performed for preoperative pseudoparalysis was conducted. the minimum follow-up was 1 year. the mean patient age was 63 years, and pseudoparalysis was present for a mean of 4.2 months preoperatively. preoperative radiographic evaluation included plain film evaluation of the ahi and hamada classification and mri evaluation of fatty degeneration and rotator cuff retraction. functional outcome was determined by the simple shoulder test (sst), american shoulder and elbow surgeons (ases) shoulder score, visual analog scale (vas), and subjective shoulder value (ssv). results: of the 58 patients enrolled, 56 had at least 1 year of follow-up. mean active forward flexion improved from 47 degrees preoperatively to 159 degrees postoperatively (p < .001). statistically significant improvements were seen in the sst (from 2.8 preoperatively to 10.1 postoperatively), ssv (from 28 to 83), ases shoulder score (from 37 to 88), and vas (from 5.7 to 1.1) (p < .001). pseudoparalysis was reversed in 53 of 56 patients (95%). there was no difference in the rate of reversal of pseudoparalysis between those patients with an ahi of less than 7 mm (88.2%) and those with an ahi of 7 mm or more (96.9%) (p =.289). pseudoparalysis was reversed in all 8 of the patients with fatty degeneration of grade 3 or higher in 1 or more of the rotator cuff muscles. conclusion: arcr can lead to reversal of preoperative pseudoparalysis in patients with minimal preoperative glenohumeral arthritis. arcr is a viable first line of treatment for patients with pseudoparalysis in the absence of advanced glenohumeral arthritis.
suspension_bridge	to seek a proper way to calculate the preoffsetting value of saddle on a suspension bridge, some influences of structural parameters on the preoffsetting are considered, then a new method for the preoffsetting value of saddle is proposed. on the basis of the relationship of the main cable and saddle, equilibrium equations, geometric equations, and physical equations are deduced. then, the equations are solved by the newton-raphson iteration method to derive the jacobian influence matrix of preoffsetting. for convergence of the numerical calculation, constraint conditions and the range of initial values are given. through comparison of the measured value in a 1/30-scale model test and the calculated value, the reliability of the new method is confirmed. finally, parametric analysis of preoffsetting shows that (1) with an increase of the saddle radius, saddle preoffsetting increases in the middle-span direction; (2) with increases of the side/middle-span and rise/span ratios, saddle preoffsetting increases in the side-span direction; (3) the influence of cable self-weight on saddle preoffsetting is negligible; (4) with an increase of unstressed cable length in the side span, saddle preoffsetting increases in the middle-span direction; and (5) with an increase of unstressed cable length in the middle span, saddle preoffsetting increases in the side-span direction.
suspension_bridge	in order to investigate the characteristics of the vibration of the windvehicle-bridge (wvb) coupling system during two trains meeting each other, the dynamic response of the wvb system has been analyzed when the two trains meeting on a large span suspension bridge using the self-developed software bansys. particularly, the aerodynamic coefficients of the bridge and the two trains before and after the meeting are determined through wind tunnel tests. it is shown that the wind loads and the responses of the leeward vehicle change abruptly in the meeting process compared with the case with a single train. and the responses of the leeward vehicle increase with the growing of wind speed and vehicle speed, and decrease with the enlarging of the lateral distance between the two trains. the processes of two trains meeting each other are the control factors for the wvb coupling system.
suspension_bridge	the potential of mechanical lamination of timber for bridge construction and its application in developing structural uses for low-grade, uk-grown timber is investigated. a mechanically laminated pedestrian bridge is designed as a half-scale of a 12 m span bridge and subjected to a series of experimental and analytical investigations. a flat, stress-laminated timber deck is formed by transversely post-tensioning short timber planks with steel bars. the resulting orthotropic solid plate is suspended from two screw-laminated slender timber arches, in which timber predominately acts in compression and end-bearing at the butt ends. the structure is subjected to a series of deck loading conditions up to failure loads. the bridge behaves elastically well beyond its design load, and shows a high level of ductility and recovery capacity. failure of the structure arises from lateral instability of the arches under symmetrical deck loading. a commercial finite-element analysis programme is used to predict the behaviour of the structure. close agreement between the analytical and experimental results demonstrates that the structural performance of mechanically laminated timber structures can be reasonably accurately predicted using linear elastic analysis. the study also shows that relatively large-span, stiff, strong structures can be constructed using means of short lengths of low-quality timber.
geotextile	this paper presents a case history of geotextile-reinforced dry cover placement on a reclaimed clay deposit treated by progressive trenching method. in order to investigate the effects of the cover material 's characteristic of ensuring trafficability with respect to bearing failure and ground deformation, two types of covers were considered in pilot tests: a layer of weathered granite soil cover and a layer of weathered granite soil over stiff crushed stone. a number of in-situ plate load tests were conducted for various cover conditions to assess the bearing capacity of the reclaimed deposit and to determine the thickness and material compositions that satisfy the bearing capacity requirement. in full-scale pilot tests for cover placement, field monitoring was carried out for the surface settlement and pore pressure that developed in the reclaimed clay layer. the results of plate-loading tests and monitoring during staged cover placements are discussed and compared using numerical predictions obtained from both finite element analyses and undrained stability analyses. the comparison results showed that the drainage condition of the ground surface facing the dry cover is strongly related to the ground response and stability.
geotextile	fatigue cracking is considered to be one of the main pathologies in asphalt pavements, contributing to the reduction of its service life and generating high costs as a consequence of more maintenance works. because of the importance of road quality in society 's economic development, techniques to avoid and reduce the adverse effects derived from cracking phenomena are necessary. for this purpose, this research focuses on the development of a sustainable and economic solution that uses reinforced polyethylene pond wastes as an antireflective cracking system placed between asphalt pavements layers. three different pavement sections were studied in the laboratory: a reference one with no anticracking system; a pavement section with geotextile as the common anticracking system; and a similar one with reinforced polyethylene pond waste. the results obtained from the mechanical performance testing showed that this technique could provide an optimal solution to reduce the effect of this pathology, and to offer a new way to valorize these wastes. in addition, in comparison with the other solutions, reinforced polyethylene pond liners are more effective in reducing the propagation of cracks through the asphalt pavement.
geotextile	this paper contributes to a better understanding of how installation damage of geosynthetics can affect soil-geosynthetic interaction during pullout and inclined-plane shear. the effects of installation damage induced in field trials of a woven geotextile and a woven geogrid were studied. the results indicated that after installation the accumulation of a layer of fine particles over the geosynthetic can reduce the skin friction available, particularly for sheet materials. installation damage can induce premature tensile failure in pullout tests, along the unconfined portion of the geosynthetic, causing a significant reduction in the corresponding coefficient of interaction. the contribution of the bearing members to the coefficient of interaction during pullout was estimated using equations from the literature. such estimates were too optimistic. the installation damage induced had little influence on the soil-geosynthetic coefficient of interaction in the inclined plane shear test. the different relative movements of the soil and geosynthetic in pullout and inclined-plane shear, as well as the deformation of the reinforcements during pullout, enabled different mobilisation of the interface strength. for the comparable conditions tested, the coefficient of interaction from inclined plane shear tests was larger than that measured from pullout tests. the reduction factor for installation damage obtained from tensile tests overestimated the effects of the installation conditions on the soil-geosynthetic interface from both pullout and inclined plane shear tests.
geotextile	this work aimed to evaluate some aspects of construction and operation of full-scale best management practices and their effects on infiltration loading rate. two systems were studied: i) filter-swale-trench (fst) and ii) infiltration well (iw). in these units, field essays and full-scale measurements were made in order to assess the soil permeability. further, the fine particles transportation and the geotextile blanket permeability were determined before and after operation. the results pointed out that there were soil transportation to inside the fst and iw systems, despite of the installed protections, and that these material were responsible for diminishing the geotextile (reduction from 30 to 90% for fst and 40 to 70% for iw) and the full-scale infiltration loading rates (varying from 4.7 x 10(-6) to 10(-5) m.s(-1)).
geotextile	thermal conductivity is a key property that controls heat migration in a variety of applications including municipal solid waste and/or mining/industrial containment facilities. in particular, heat may be encountered in cases where geosynthetic lining systems are exposed to elevated temperatures due to either waste biodegradation, solar radiation, or mining processes. this paper presents the results of an experimental investigation on thermal conductivity of nonwoven geotextiles, geosynthetic clay liners and an hdpe geomembrane. a steady state method was used to measure the thermal conductivity of a selected number of these materials. the thermal conductivity of the hdpe geomembrane was found to be consistent with the thermal conductivity of hope polymer. on the other hand, the thermal conductivity of the nonwoven geotextiles depended on water content and whether they are hydrophobic or hydrophilic. the form of bentonite, its mass per area and water content affected the thermal conductivity of gcls. the results presented in this paper provide a lower bound of thermal conductivities of geosynthetics routinely used in waste containment facilities. (c) 2013 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
stealth_technology	in this paper, we propose a technique for ir low-observability that uses an active ir signal tuning through the real time control of the object surface temperature according to the varying background environment. this is achieved by applying the proper object surface temperature obtained to result in the minimum radiance difference between the object and the background. experimental verification by using the thermoelectric temperature control element shows that the ir radiance contrast between the object and the background can be reduced up to 99% during the night and up to 95% during the day time as compared to the un-tuned original radiance contrast values. the stealth technology demonstrated in this paper may be applied for many military systems needed for the ir stealth performance when a suitable temperature control unit is developed.
stealth_technology	in this contribution we propose an analysis of the absorbing capabilities of planar structures loaded with left handed material (lhm) based on resonant magnetic inclusions, operating at microwave frequencies. to this end, we 'll present a general formulation valid for any characteristic property of lhm. it is demonstrated that if a medium with the proposed constitutive properties is achieved, then some of the very common limitations of present day absorbers like the presence of metallic plates can be overcome. it is shown, also, that the introduction of lhm leads to an enlargement of the angular bandwidth with a reduction of the overall dimensions of the component. numerical results together with some remarks about possible practical implementations of the proposed components will be also given.
stealth_technology	global fight against terror, and the rapidly changing geopolitical situations, raise hot debates on urgently needed new designs and operational modes of efficient, low-cost, jet-engine-steered (jes) strike drones, and about the expected roles of future uclass (unmanned, carrier-launched, surveillance & strike), while current ucav (unmanned combat air vehicles) have failed to perform the needed strike missions. the role of the jet-engine community in this rapidly unfolding geopolitical situation is reviewed in the main text and in the appendix.
stealth_technology	rf stealth technology is one of the most significant ways to guarantee the radar 's survivability. the rf stealth algorithm of mimo radar in searching mode is obtained to improve the rf stealth performance. this algorithm is based on the rf stealth optimization model which sets the number of subarrays, average power, dwell time and search frame period as controllable parameters, the interception factor is also considered to optimize the rf stealth performance under the guarantee of searching performance. the simulation results show that mimo radar with the rf stealth algorithm in searching mode has better stealth performance than conventional phased array radar.
stealth_technology	nowadays, more and more researchers pay attention to the microwave absorbing materials with the increase of electromagnetic pollution and the development of stealth technology for military platforms. traditional microwave absorbers, such as ferrite, metal powder, conductive magnetic fibers, magnetic flake powder, and nanoparticles and so on, are facing some common problems such as large specific gravity, narrow absorption bandwidth, large match thickness and poor absorption performance. composites with core-shell structures are becoming promising microwave absorbing material because such structure can exhibit magnetic and dielectric characteristics through the proper selection of core and shell materials. thus, fe(co)(5) deposition on the srfe12o19 surface has been considered for the fabrication of a new composite that possesses the advantages of these two materials. this new composite might also obtain remarkable microwave absorption through thin layer absorbers in the entire 2 similar to 18 ghz frequency range. the fe-srfe12o19 composites with core-shell structures were prepared by metal organic chemical vapor deposition (mocvd) using the srfe12o19 and iron pentacarbonyl [fe(co)(5)] as the precursors. xrd, sem, eds and a vector network analyzer were used to characterize the structure and electromagnetic properties of the samples. the structure and morphology analyses show that the composites have complete core-shell structures with srfe12o19 as core and fe layers as shell. fe nanoparticles were uniformly deposited on the surface of srfe12o19 with thickness of about 0.5 mu m at the reaction temperature of 180 degrees c with n-2 flow rate of 30 ml/min for 30 mm. simulation studies show that srfe12o19 electromagnetic properties changed significantly and the absorbing properties got evidently improvement after fe deposited on its surface. the samples prepared with deposition time of 30 min have the best absorbing properties. a reflection loss (rl) value exceeding -10 db in the range of 6.8 similar to 18.0 ghz frequency was obtained by selecting an appropriate thickness of the absorber layer from 1.5 to 3.0 mm. moreover, a minimum rl of -21.2 db at was obtained for a 2.0 mm thick layer. fe-deposited srfe12o19 by mocvd can significantly improve the electromagnetic properties of srfe12o19 and fe-srfe12o19 composites could be used as an effective microwave absorption material.
solar_energy	a bubble pump is proposed to replace the traditional mechanical solution pump in lithium bromide absorption chillers, for its advantageous feature that can be driven by industrial waste heat or solar energy or other low-grade energy. in two-stage bubble pump driven lithium bromide absorption refrigeration system, flow patterns in lifting pipe have significant effects on the performance of bubble pump. in this paper, the single bubble motion and the double bubbles coalescence in vertical ascending pipe are simulated by an improved free energy model of lattice boltzmann method, in which the two-phase liquid to gas density ratio is 2778. the details of bubbles coalescence process are studied. density and velocity of bubbles have been obtained. the computational results show that the initial radius of each bubble has a great influence on the coalescence time. the larger the initial bubble radius, the shorter the coalescence time. the pipe diameter has a little effect on the two bubbles coalescence time while it has a significant effect on the bubble velocity. as the pipe diameter increases, the bubble velocity increases. the obtained results are helpful for studying the transition mechanisms of two-phase flow patterns and useful for improving the bubble pump performance by controlling the flow patterns in lifting pipe. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
solar_energy	nigeria is the most populous country in africa (7th most populous in the world) and it is strategic to the realization of the united nations' sustainable development goals (sdgs) by 2030. however, sdg no. 7 (affordable and clean energy) and other goals connected to the reduction of climate change are crucial for the attainment of sustainable development in nigeria. this comprehensive review encompasses the discussions of the clean energy potential, obstacles to and stimulants of clean energy implementations, and renewable energy policies in nigeria. solar and biomass resources have been presented in this article because of their huge availability in nigeria. nigeria has the potential to produce an estimated 47.97 million tonnes of oil equivalent (mtoe) annually from biomass resources. likewise, 17, 459 billion mj/day of solar energy is incident on the total surface of nigeria. the biomass resources which can be tapped for renewable energy production in nigeria include jatropha with high oil contents, sweet sorghum and molasses; food crops such as cassava, rice, coconut, cashew, millet, rice, oil palm, maize, and yam; agricultural residues and wastes from food crops such as cassava peels, cassava liquid sludge, mango peel, mango seed kernel, rice husks (rh), corn residues, oil palm derivatives, sugar cane straw, and bagasse; forest resources; municipal solid wastes; and animal wastes. these resources can be exploited for the production of biogas, bioethanol, biodiesel, briquettes and organic fertilizers through anaerobic digestion, transesterification, gasification, pyrolysis, and briquetting. there are also huge potentials for the deployment of solar photovoltaic (pv) and thermal systems in off-grid, grid-connected, and hybrid installations. it can be concluded that the techno-economic feasibility and environmental significance of solar power and bioenergy for nigeria 's sustainable development is site-specific and subject to factors such as incentives and financing, research and development, public enlightenment, government 's policies, and private investments.
solar_energy	a set of 96 open-cell foams with growing porosities (035-0.95) and growing pore nominal diameters (0.4-2.6 mm) was artificially generated to firmly connect their normal spectral emittances to their textural features. this work is strictly focused on foams that are composed of opaque struts with optically smooth surfaces. to compute the normal spectral emittances, a monte carlo ray tracing code was carefully used through an indirect method based on kirchhoff 's laws. the monte carlo ray tracing code considers the complex refractive index of the solid phase constituting the struts foams. particular attention is therefore paid to performing the calculation with absorption indices (0.5-8) that preserve the opacity of each strut. from a thorough analysis of the ray transport within all the foams, where the representative elementary volumes used for computing the homogenized radiative properties were known beforehand, a general and simple law is established that connects the normal spectral emittance, on the one hand, and the open porosity and the complex index of refraction, on the other hand. in the field of the thermal conversion of solar energy, for example, the new law gives relevant insight on the radiative performance of highly porous foams that are virtually coated with materials that are known for possessing an undeniable spectral selectivity when they are shaped as dense samples. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
solar_energy	phase change materials (pcms) with high thermal conductivity and efficient solar energy conversion have recently attracted much attention. however, a facile strategy to enhance thermal conductivity and realize energy conversion and storage is still eagerly desired. in this work, a very low content of graphene nano platelets (gnp) is introduced into poly (ethylene glycol) (peg)/boron nitride (bn) composite pcm5, resulting in great improvement in thermal conductivity and photoabsorption ability via a facile solution blending process. the presence of gnp contributes to enhancing thermal conductivity and realizing efficient solar energy conversion (including solar-to-thermal and solar-to-electric energy conversion) for the peg/bn/gnp composite pcms owing to the formation of improved bn/gnp thermally conductive network and the improvement of sunlight harvesting ability, respectively. thermophysical properties demonstrate that compared with peg/bn composite pcm5 at the same bn content, peg/bn/gnp composite pcms containing a low gnp content maintain comparable energy storage density. the study sheds light on the realization of solar energy utilization and storage of the organic pcms requiring high thermal conductivity. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
solar_energy	cds nanoparticles (nps) decorated alpha-fe2o3 nanopillar arrays (npas) were fabricated through several steps. fe npas were firstly fabricated by glancing angle deposition technique and oxidized in air to gain alpha-fe2o3 npas. then these npas were decorated by cds nps through successive ion layer adsorption and reaction (silar). here we have tested photodegredation of methylene blue (mb) and photoelectrochemical properties under visible light. especially, when silar cycle number reaches to 10, it shows the highest degradation efficiency (94% in 75 min on mb) which improves 72% comparing with pure one and the highest photocurrent density (2.0 ma cm(-2) at 0.4 v vs ag/agcl electrode). alpha-fe2o3/cds hetero-junctions could greatly enhance photocatalytic performance, which can help to accomplish sufficient usage of solar energy and be exploited on pollution abatement in future. (c) 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
remote_sensing	surface remote sensing of aerosol properties provides ground truth for satellite and model validation and is an important component of aerosol observation system. due to the different characteristics of background aerosol variability, information obtained at different locations usually has different spatial representativeness, implying that the location should be carefully chosen so that its measurement could be extended to a greater area. in this study, we present an objective observation array design technique that automatically determines the optimal locations with the highest spatial representativeness based on the ensemble kalman filter (enkf) theory. the ensemble is constructed using aerosol optical depth (aod) products from five satellite sensors. the optimal locations are solved sequentially by minimizing the total analysis error variance, which means that observations at these locations will reduce the background error variance to the largest extent. the location determined by the algorithm is further verified to have larger spatial representativeness than some other arbitrary location. in addition to the existing active aerosol robotic network (aeronet) sites, the 40 selected optimal locations are mostly concentrated on regions with both high aod inhomogeneity and its spatial representativeness, namely, the sahel, south africa, east asia, and north pacific islands. these places should be the focuses of establishing future aeronet sites in order to further reduce the uncertainty in the monthly mean aod. observations at these locations contribute to approximately 50% of the total background uncertainty reduction.
remote_sensing	arctic river icings are surface ice accumulations that can be >10km(2) in area and >10m thick. they commonly impact the hydrology, geomorphology, and ecology of arctic river environments. previous examination of icing dynamics in arctic alaska found no substantial changes in extent through 2005. however, here we use daily time series of satellite imagery for 2000-2015 to demonstrate that the temporal persistence and minimum summertime extent of large icings in part of arctic alaska and canada have declined rapidly. we identified 122 large ephemeral icings, and 70 are disappearing significantly earlier in the summer, with a mean trend of -1.60.9day(-1) for fully ephemeral features. additionally, 14 of 25 icings that usually persist through the summer have significantly smaller minimum extents (-2.61.6%yr(-1)). these declines are remarkably rapid and suggest that arctic hydroclimatic systems generating icings, and their associated ecosystems, are changing rapidly. plain language summary liquid water emerging from groundwater and flowing through arctic rivers during the winter often freezes into large ice features, which are called river icings. these icings, which are found in nearly all parts of the arctic, create wide, gravelly river channels that can be important habitat for animals. when icings melt during the summer, they help keep rivers flowing when other water sources are limited. up until now, no study has systematically looked at whether these features are changing in response to warming temperatures. we use daily satellite imagery available over northern alaska from 2000 to 2015 in order to test whether icings are becoming smaller or disappearing earlier in the summer. of 147 features examined, we found that 84 are either becoming smaller (for those that persist throughout the summer) or are disappearing earlier (for those that fully melt each summer). none are becoming larger or disappearing later. these changes may be directly related to warming temperatures, but they may also be happening because climate change is altering how rivers and groundwater interact. if these trends continue, we may see changes in the form of many arctic rivers and impacts on the habitat of animals like fish and caribou.
remote_sensing	geographical information systems (gis) are often used to assess and monitor the environmental impacts caused by mining activities. the aim of this work was to develop a new application to produce dynamic maps for monitoring the temperature variations in a self-burning coal waste pile, under a gis open source environmentgis-ecoal (freely available). the performance of the application was evaluated with distributed temperature measurements gathered in the s. pedro da cova (portugal) coal waste pile. in order to obtain the temperature data, an optical fiber cable was disposed over the affected area of the pile, with 42 location stakes acting as precisely-located control points for the temperature measurement. a monthly data set from july (15 min of interval) was fed into the application and a video composed by several layouts with temperature measurements was created allowing for recognizing two main areas with higher temperatures. the field observations also allow the identification of these zones; however, the identification of an area with higher temperatures in the top of the studied area was only possible through the visualization of the images created by this application. the generated videos make possible the dynamic and continuous visualization of the combustion process in the monitored area.
remote_sensing	the effects of hydrologic cycle change (caused by human activity and global climate change) on ecosystems attract the increasing attention around the world. as a result of impounding of the three gorges dam (tgd), climate change and sand mining, the dry season of poyang lake and dongting lake (china 's two largest freshwater lakes) came early after the tgd impoundment. it was the primary cause of the increasing need for sluice/dam construction to store water in the lakes and attracted increasing attention. in this paper, we compared the landscape pattern between three hydrologic years with early dry season (ey) and three normal hydrologic years (ny) of each lake by remote sensing technology, to reveal the effect of early dry season on landscape pattern. the results showed that early dry season caused expanding of phalaris to mudflat zone in poyang lake, while caused expanding of carex to phalaris zone and expanding of phalaris to mudflat zone in dongting lake. in landscape level, there was no significant difference in landscape grain size, landscape grain shape, habitat connectivity and landscape diversity between ey and ny in the two lakes. while in habitat class level, there were significant changes in area of mudflat and phalaris and grain size of mudflat in poyang lake, and in area of carex, grain size of phalaris and grain shape of carex and phalaris in dongting lake. these changes will impact migrating birds of east asian and migratory fishes of yangtze river. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
remote_sensing	this letter proposes a novel framework for the classification of light detection and ranging (lidar)-derived features. in this context, several features are extracted directly from the lidar point cloud data using aggregated local point neighborhoods, including laser echo ratio, variance of point elevation, plane fitting residuals, and echo intensity. additionally, the lidar digital surface model (dsm) is input to our classification. thus, both the lidar raster dsm and also rich geometric and also backscatter 3-d point cloud information aggregated to images are considered in our workflow. these extracted features are characterized as base images to be fed to extinction profiles to model spatial and contextual information. then, a composite kernel support vector machine is investigated to efficiently integrate the elevation and spatial information suitable for the lidar data. results indicate that the proposed method can obtain high classification accuracy using lidar data alone (e.g., more than 86% overall accuracy on the benchmark houston lidar data using the standard set of training and test samples on all 15 classes) in a short cpu processing time.
rainwater_harvesting	water is a scarce resource in arid regions, and hence water harvesting is critically important in these regions for which many different means are adopted including groundwater and rainwater harvesting. this paper examines the feasibility of rainwater harvesting from roof catchments in arid regions of australia. for this, ten representative locations in the arid regions of australia are selected. also, ten different sizes of rainwater tanks ranging from 5 kl to 50 kl and three different combinations of water uses are considered. a model is developed to simulate the performance of a rainwater harvesting (rwh) system. it is found that the reliability of a rwh system is highly dependent on mean annual rainfall at the location of interest. it is found that a 20 kl tank can provide a reliability of 61%-97% for toilet and laundry use depending on the location within the australian arid regions. at the current water price, rwh system is not financially viable in the australian arid regions. the methodology adopted in this paper can be adapted to other similar arid regions of the world. (c) 2014 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
rainwater_harvesting	the practice of rainwater harvesting (rwh) is spreading rapidly in urban areas. this article studies the impact of a possible generalization of this practice for municipalities by proposing a new method to quantify the potential for potable water savings (ppws) by using rainwater harvesting at the urban level. the proposed method is based on the adaptation of an already validated model assessing the ppws for single buildings and the use of urban databases. two concepts are introduced: (1) the ""building type"" that allows gathering all the buildings sharing common features; and (2) the ""equivalent building,"" which is used to assess the ppws of a set of buildings (of a same building type) as if it were a single building. in the case of the municipality of colombes (located in the suburbs of paris), the method shows that the ppws by using rainwater harvesting represents about 10% of the total potable water consumption: the residential buildings account for 64% of this potential. this method can be applied to other municipalities with a level of acceptable reliability with regard to the means to be implemented in terms of collecting information.
rainwater_harvesting	the target of villages rainwater harvesting is to trap impermeable pavement and prevent rainwater runoff, and rainwater accumulated is mainly used for domestic miscellaneous water, environmental and ecological water. low impact development (lid) is an analog of natural stormwater management. the rainwater collection system, which is based on the concept of lid stormwater control, is easy to operate and inexpensive. according to the characteristics of village rainwater harvesting, towns rainwater collection system will be divided into five parts: roof rainwater harvesting, courtyard rainwater harvesting, street rainwater harvesting, green rainwater harvesting and landscape rainwater storage pond. we summarize the principles of rainwater collection systems in towns and villages landscape applications: low-impact, low-maintenance, low-cost; design with nature, design to life; the overall planning, collaborative implementation. provide reference for the ecological and circular village rainwater resource utilization.
rainwater_harvesting	harvested rainwater systems and composting toilets are expected to be an important part of sustainable solutions in buildings. yet, to this date, a model evaluating their economic and environmental impact has been missing. to address this need, a life cycle based model, eeast was developed. eeast was designed to compare the business as usual (bau) case of using potable water for toilet flushing and irrigation to alternative scenarios of rainwater harvesting and composting toilet based technologies. in eeast, building characteristics, occupancy, and precipitation are used to size the harvested rainwater and composting toilet systems. then, life cycle costing and life cycle assessment methods are used to estimate cost, energy, and greenhouse gas (ghg) emission payback periods (pps) for five alternative scenarios. the scenarios modeled include use of harvested rainwater for toilet flushing, for irrigation, or both; and use of composting toilets with or without harvested rainwater use for irrigation. a sample simulation using eeast showed that for the office building modeled, the cost pps were greater than energy pps which in turn were greater than ghg emission pps. this was primarily due to energy and emission intensive nature of the centralized water and wastewater infrastructure. the sample simulation also suggested that the composting toilets may have the best performance in all criteria. however, eeast does not explicitly model solids management and as such may give composting toilets an unfair advantage compared to flush based toilets. eeast results were found to be very sensitive to cost values used in the model. with the availability of eeast, life cycle cost, energy, and ghg emissions can now be performed fairly easily by building designers and researchers. future work is recommended to further improve eeast and evaluate it for different types of buildings and climates so as to better understand when composting toilets and harvested rainwater systems outperform the bau case in building design. (c) 2013 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
rainwater_harvesting	it is urgent to effectively mitigate flood disasters in humid mountainous areas in southeastern china for the increasing flood risk under urbanization and industrialization. in this study, a rural district with an area of 13.39 km(2) that planning to build an industrial park covering an area of 7.98 km(2) in changting was selected to estimate the potential of collectable rainwater and the extent to which runoff volume can potentially be mitigated by rainwater harvesting. in addition, the optimum cistern capacity of a rainwater harvesting system in the planned industrial park was evaluated using daily water balance simulation and cost-efficiency analysis. the results showed that rainwater harvesting in the planned industrial park has great potential. the annually collectable rainwater is approximately 9.8 x 10(6) m(3) and the optimum cistern capacity is determined to be 0.9 x 10(6) m(3). with the optimum cistern capacity, the annual rainwater usage rate is 0.99, showing neither financial savings nor deficits. rainwater harvesting can reduce 100 % of runoff volume in the cases of critical rainfall storm (50 mm) and annual average maximum daily rainfall (111.2 mm), and 58 % of runoff volume in the case of maximum daily rainfall (233.6 mm), respectively. all surface runoff can be collected and stored in the cisterns when rainfall amount is less than 135.5 mm in a rainstorm event.
