label 24	WORLD BANK TO SUPPORT SRI LANKA IF DEFICITS CUT The World Bank will support Sri Lanka's development program provided the country reduces its budget and current account deficits, the Ministry of Finance said. It said Bank President Barber Conable at a meeting with Sri Lanka's Finance Minister Ronnie de Mel in Washington also emphasised the need for structural adjustment and reform to the economy, battered by five years of separatist disturbances. Officials said Sri Lanka's budget deficit this year is expected to surpass the projected 28.7 billion rupees while defence spending, already up by two billion rupees from a targetted 10 billion, is also likely grow. The Ministry said de Mel asked the World Bank to give Sri Lanka 6.5 billion rupees balance of payments support.  
label 24	SPAIN HAS 35 MLN DLR CURRENT SURPLUS FEBRUARY Spain had a 35 mln dlr current account surplus in February compared with a 68 mln dlr surplus in January and a 355 mln dlr surplus in February last year, Bank of Spain figures show. Spain's trade deficit narrowed to 581 mln dlrs compared with 664 mln dlrs in January but the large increase in non-oil imports contributed to the substantial increase over the 159 mln dlr deficit registered in February 1986. Exports at 2.58 billion dlrs were up 19 pct compared with February last year, but imports were 46 pct higher than last February, totalling 3.16 billion dlrs. Non-oil imports totalled 2.79 billion dlrs compared with 1.91 billion in February last year, reflecting the large ammount of investment goods entering the country with the recovery of the Spanish economy, the Bank of Spain said. Spain's tourism earnings continued to grow and totalled 655 mln dlrs in February, compared with 103 mln dlrs in January and 502 mln dlrs in February last year.  
label 24	BELGIAN CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS WIDENS IN 1986 Belgium's current account surplus, measured on a cash basis, widened sharply to 134.9 billion francs last year from 17.5 billion in 1985, the Finance Ministry said. The increase was due almost entirely to a sharp rise in the goods trade surplus to 126.1 billion francs from 20.4 billion. The services trade surpluses increased to 52.4 billion francs from 38.9 billion while the deficit on transfers rose slightly to 43.6 billion from 41.8 billion. Private sector capital operations showed a steeply higher deficit of 160.7 billion francs after 56.9 billion in 1985.  
label 24	SOUTH KOREA TO CHANGE POLICIES TO AVERT TRADE WAR South Korea has decided on major changes in its trade, investment and finance policies aimed at reducing the growth of its balance of payments surplus and avoiding a trade war with the United States, Deputy Prime Minister Kim Mahn-je said. Kim told reporters the excessively fast rise in exports could make South Korea too reliant on exports, increase nflation and produce trade friction. The policy shift, which means abandoning Seoul's goal of rapidly reducing its foreign debt, was worked out at a series of ministerial meetings. Kim, who is also Economic Planning Minister, said the current account surplus, previously expected to exceed eight billion dlrs this year, would be held at about five billion dlrs by increasing imports, accelerating market liberalisation and rationalising exports. He said Seoul would try to limit its current account surplus to around five billion dlrs a year for the next few years, although trade volume would continue to grow. "This will gradually reduce the ratio of the surplus to GNP (gross national product) from the current five pct level to three pct by 1991," he added. Koo Bon-yong, an aide to Kim, said South Korea's foreign debt had been expected to fall below 40 billion dlrs by the end of 1987, against the initial forecast of 41.8 billion, and 44.5 billion dlrs at end-1986. "But now (with the policy changes) the debt is expected to remain above 40 billion dlrs, although it could still be lower than the originally projected 41.8 billion dlrs," he said. The policy change was announced two days before the scheduled arrival of U.S. Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige for talks with Trade Minister Rha Woong-bae. South Korea is under U.S. Pressure to reduce its bilateral trade surplus, which rose to 7.4 billion dlrs last year from 4.3 billion dlrs in 1985. Kim said the policy changes were also prompted by the swing in South Korea's current account to a surplus of 2.06 billion dlrs in the first quarter of 1987 from a deficit of 438 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period. First quarter 1987 exports rose 36 pct to 9.4 billion dlrs. The government would make foreign currency loans worth 2.5 billion dlrs to firms willing to import capital goods, raw materials and equipment, preferably from the U.S., He said. "The foreign currency-based loans, which carry interest at 1.5 points above LIBOR (London Interbank Offered Rate), are considerable incentives given to increase imports," Koo said. Koo said the loans would be repayable in foreign currency. "It means they could become interest-free loans if the Korean currency continues to rise in value," he said. He said the South Korean won would be revalued against the dollar gradually, but added "We do not believe in rapid one-shot changes in the value of the won." The won, fixed at 839.70 to the dollar today, has risen six pct against the dollar since the beginning of 1986.  
label 24	FINLAND'S CURRENT ACCOUNT IN DEFICIT IN 1ST QTR Finland's current account balance of payments showed a deficit of 2.5 billion markka in first quarter 1987 against a deficit of 3.2 billion in the same period last year, the Bank of Finland said in a statement.  
label 24	German May current account surplus 7.5 billion marks (April surplus 6.1  billion) - official  German May current account surplus 7.5 billion marks (April surplus 6.1  billion) - official  
label 24	ITALY SHOWS SEPTEMBER OVERALL PAYMENTS SURPLUS Italy's overall balance of payments showed a 919 billion lire surplus in September against a deficit of 1,026 billion in August, provisional Bank of Italy figures showed. The September surplus compared with a shortfall of 1,697 billion lire in September 1986. For the first nine months of 1987, the overall balance of payments showed a deficit of 1,921 billion lire against a 1,725 billion deficit in the same 1986 period. The central bank said Italy's one billion dlr Eurobond launched last month contributed to September's surplus.  
label 24	S.KOREA CURRENT A/C SURPLUS SEEN NEAR 10 BLN DLRS South Korea's national news agency, Yonhap, said this year's current account surplus will near 10 billion dlrs amid signs of continuing high world demand for the country's cheap cars and electronic goods. Bank of Korea officials would neither confirm nor deny the Yonhap forecast, saying only that the bank would issue its own figures later in the week. Yonhap said the January-September surplus in the current account, which covers trade in goods and services, totalled 7.03 billion dlrs. This already exceeds the seven billion dlr ceiling for the whole of 1987 that the government set in June during talks with the International Monetary Fund aimed at averting a too rapid revaluation of the won against the dollar. The agency said the September surplus was 1.4 billion dlrs, up from 468.1 mln in August and 899 mln a year earlier. "Exports in October could be relatively modest due to many public holidays, but by the end of this year the surplus will be well over nine billion dollars, close to ten," Yonhap said. The sharp rise in the September surplus came from a resumption of export deliveries delayed by strikes the previous month. More than 3,300 companies, including car manufacturers, electronic and electric firms, were hit by labour unrest between July and September. The South Korean government originally targeted a five billion dlr current account surplus this year, but had to raise this to seven billion to reflect a startling first-half export boom. If confirmed, the soaring 1987 current account surplus seemed certain to trigger tougher pressure from the United States which recorded a 7.4 billion dlr trade deficit with Seoul last year, government economists said. The U.S. Government, trying to stem protectionist pressure at home, has called on South Korea to open more markets to American goods and revalue the won faster. The won was fixed at 804.90 against the dollar on Monday, representing a 7.01 pct gain so far this year.  
label 24	NORWAY'S CURRENT ACCOUNT IN DEFICIT Norway's current account showed a 9.9 billion crown deficit for the first seven months of 1987, against a 19.7 billion crown deficit for the same year-ago period, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. North Sea oil and gas revenues rose 3.4 pct to 32.6 billion crowns in the January to July period compared with 31.5 billion in the first seven months of 1986. REUTER  
label 24	N.Z. QUARTERLY CURRENT ACCOUNT DEFICIT NARROWS New Zealand's current account deficit for the quarter ended December 31, 1986 narrowed to 567 mln dlrs from 738 mln, revised down from 742 mln, for the September quarter and from 733 mln a year earlier, the statistics department said. The deficit for the year ended December narrowed to 2.75 billion dlrs from 2.91 billion dlrs, revised down from 2.92 billion, for the year ended September. The deficit for calendar 1985 was 2.61 billion. The December quarter showed a 182 mln dlr surplus for merchandise trade, unchanged from the September quarter surplus which was revised down from 271 mln dlrs. The 1985 December quarter showed a 13 mln dlr deficit. Imports for the December 1986 quarter were 2.655 billion against 2.883 billion in the September quarter and 2.454 a year earlier. Exports were 2.837 billion against 3.065 billion and 2.440 billion. Imports for the year ended December 1986 were 10.74 billion dlrs compared with 11.14 billion in 1985. Exports were 11.20 billion against 11.36 billion. Government borrowing stood at 9.26 billion dlrs for calendar 1986 against 3.15 billion for 1985. Borrowing in the December quarter rose to 3.92 billion from 1.79 in the September quarter and 611 mln a year earlier. Repayments stood at 5.5 billion for the year, up from 3.1 billion in 1985. Repayments in the December quarter accounted for 1.4 billion dlrs against 260 mln in the September quarter and 334 mln a year earlier. Official reserves totalled 7.205 billion dlrs at end December compared with 4.723 billion at end September and 3.255 billion one year earlier.  
label 25	GLOBAL ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN RAISES NEW DEBT FEARS The global economy is expected to weaken this year, adding new worries to an already serious poverty outlook, economic analysts said. For finance ministers and central bankers attending this week's semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, the new figures released by the IMF add an additional concern. The Fund estimated world output would only grow by 2.7 pct this year, versus 2.9 pct last year, and 3.1 pct in 1985. In the industrial countries, Gross National Product, a measure of all goods and services, was expected to decline to 2.3 pct this year, compared with 2.4 pct in 1986, the IMF said. For the developing countries, the Gross Domestic Product, another measure of economic growth, was expected to fall to 3.0 pct from 3.5 pct last year. The new figures are considered a major disappointment to the poorest countries. They had hoped that new vitality in the industrial countries brought on by a sharp decline in oil prices would assist their economic recovery and help them cope with growing mounds of debt. IMF officials, discussing their outlook, said they believed the industrial country economies would move up to an annual growth rate of three pct by the end of the decade. Economic analysts and the IMF have been saying for some time that the ability to keep the debt crisis from turning into an economic rout rests on sustained economic growth. Since the debtor countries must look to the wealthier states for markets for their products as well as financial assistance, economic weakness in the developed nations' economies poses fundamental worries. Debtor countries, including the very poorest states, have only a few avenues open to them for earning foreign exchange, including the key one of exports. The U.S. economy, which is in its fifth year of expansion, has served as a mainstay for developing country exports, but it too is seen as being rather feeble this year, growing by only 2.3 pct, according to the IMF. For this reason and because of a high trade deficit, the United States has been pressuring Japan and West Germany to ignite their economies but with little apparent success. The IMF study also examines the course of the dollar and the curious lack of impact it has had on the U.S. trade deficit. Reagan administration officials have been saying that the impact is now beginning to show up, although it has been much slower than expected. The IMF observed in its World Economic Outlook that "it has to be recognized that exchange rate adjustments take time to work through to payments flows -- probably at least three years to get a resonably complete effect." The report added, however, "the adjustments may take even more time on this occasion." REUTER^M  
label 25	WEST GERMAN INSTITUTES CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS The five leading West German economic research institutes said the government should do more to stimulate economic growth and called for early introduction of tax cuts planned for 1990. In their joint spring report the institutes were divided about 1987 growth forecasts, with three predicting two pct expansion and the other two only one pct growth. Gross national product grew 2.4 pct last year. But the report said all the institutes believed that "more must be done to produce dynamic growth so that more additional jobs can be created." The institutes said any step which improved basic economic conditions should be taken as quickly as possible. "From this point of view, the tax reform planned for 1990 should be brought forward." The government plans gross tax reductions of 44 billion marks as part of the major tax reform. The net tax relief from the tax reform will amount to 25 billion marks. However, the institutes criticised the government, not only for the timing of the reform, but also because the question of its financing had been left open. The government has not specified how the remaining 19 billion marks of the tax reduction package will be paid for, though it has said it wants to cut state subsidies. The institutes said this lack of clarity from Bonn had caused uncertainty among companies and households as to what exactly they would receive from the tax reform and urged a quick decision from the government. They also said the government should reduce tax preferences, which would simplify the fiscal system, urged a restriction of state spending and called for no increase in value-added tax. The institutes also criticised Bonn for increasing subsidies at a time further reductions had been pledged. They referred specifically to a doubling of special writedowns for small and medium sized companies announced in a package of tax adjustments planned for 1988 and described this as an increase in subsidies. The institutes said total subsidies, including tax preferences, had reached 80 billion marks in 1985 and risen further since then. Given the scope of these subsidies, it should be possible "despite ... Major political difficulties" to finance the tax reform by cutting state handouts. The institutes said that if the government raised value added tax or other indirect taxes a large portion of the positive effects resulting from lower taxes would be lost. The report also noted that the government was progressing only slowly with its plans to privatise state companies and said more deregulation was needed. The government had to aim for more competition, it said.  
label 25	BANGEMANN REJECTS CALL FOR EARLY TAX CUTS West German Economics Minister Martin Bangemann indirectly rejected a call from the country's leading economic research institutes for early introduction of a major tax reform involving gross tax cuts of 44 billion marks. In a statement reacting to the five institutes' joint spring report, Bangemann said that as far as the call for bringing forward the 1990 tax reform was concerned -- "The government points out that the positive effects for growth of its policy of consolidation (cutting the budget deficit) must not be allowed to be endangered." Bangemann also recalled that the scope of tax cuts planned for 1988 had already been increased. Three institutes predicted two pct economic growth in 1987, with exports falling by 0.5 pct. The other two saw only one pct growth and said exports would fall 2.5 pct. Bangemann said "The government, agreeing with the majority, sees no reason for the extraordinarily pessimistic estimate for exports expressed by the minority." He said there was reason to believe that export demand would start to rise in the course of the year, partly because of a further increase in world trade.  
label 25	ITALIAN GDP ROSE 2.4 PCT IN 1986 FOURTH QUARTER Italy's Gross Domestic Product, calculated at 1980 prices, rose 2.4 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986, compared with the same period in 1985, National Statistics Institute ISTAT said. ISTAT said in a statement that GDP growth in fourth quarter 1986 was zero compared with the preceding quarter. Italy's budget ministry said last month that 1986 GDP rose 2.7 pct in real terms from 1985. Imports in the fourth quarter totalled 26,361 billion lire, down 1.4 pct from the 1985 fourth quarter and down 6.6 pct from the third 1986 quarter, ISTAT said. Istat said exports totaled 23,190 billion lire in the fourth quarter, down 4.1 pct from the comparable 1985 quarter and down 6.7 pct from the third quarter in 1986. Fixed investments were 23,438 billion lire in the fourth quarter, down 0.7 pct from the preceding quarter and up 1.1 pct from the comparable 1985 quarter.  
label 25	INSTITUTES SEE NO WEST GERMAN RECESSION The five leading West German economic research institutes, which have revised down their forecasts for 1987 growth, do not predict a recession in West Germany, their spokesman, Hans-Juergen Schmahl said. The institutes were divided in their spring report on forecasts for 1987, with three predicting two pct growth and two seeing only one pct expansion. Growth was 2.4 pct in 1986. Schmahl, presenting the report at a news conference, said, "None of the institutes reckons with a recession or with the beginning of a recession." He added, however, that exports remained the weak point of the economy . Schmahl also said West Germany would have to expect further encroachments of foreign goods onto its markets. Arthur Krumper of Munich's Ifo institute, which with the DIW of West Berlin had presented the more pessimistic view of the economy, said, "The braking effects (on the economy) produced by external factors will remain considerable for most of the year."  
label 25	CENTRAL BANK HEAD SAYS PHILIPPINE GROWTH ON TARGET The Philippines' first quarter growth figures released yesterday indicated the government was likely to achieve its 1987 targets, Central Bank governor Jose Fernandez said in an interview. The National Economic Development Authority (NEDA) announced yesterday gross domestic product (GDP) grew 5.78 pct and gross national product (GNP) 5.53 pct in the first quarter from a year earlier. "I don't see anything on the horizon that should cut it (growth) short," Fernandez said. NEDA said GNP had grown 3.56 pct and GDP 3.25 pct in the fourth quarter of 1986 from a year earlier. Last year's GNP growth, put earlier at 0.13 pct, was revised to 1.51 pct. "Certainly I do not see any shortage in external resources and if GNP growth continues at this level I would assume that domestic resources on the fiscal side would be generated and would not be a stumbling block," Fernandez said. "I think even before the figures came out, simply looking at key indicators, such as consumption of fuel oil and power, showed that the economy was on a different track from last year," he said. Fernandez said consumption tended to be heavier in the first and second quarters because of the dry weather, and it could drop off in the third quarter. He said the most significant sign of recovery lay in the manufacturing sector, which grew by 9.64 pct, after declines in 1985 and a slow turnaround in the second half of 1986. "That is not a seasonal thing, it is secular," he said. He said the government had met all monetary targets set for the first quarter in consultation with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). It expected to draw down the fourth tranche from its 198 mln SDR stand-by arrangement soon. The Philippines has so far drawn three tranches totalling 58 mln SDRs from the arrangement expiring on April 23, 1988. Fernandez said an IMF mission would visit here in July or August to review performance in the January-June period. He said IMF repayments were projected to total 1.56 billion dlrs over the 1987-92 period and drawings only 236 mln dlrs. Repayments were inevitable and many countries would find their net repayments to the IMF rising in the next few years. "It means that since there will be a net drain on ODA (official development assistance) accounts the commercial banking system will be requested to hold the line," he said. It is an internal constraint that exists because the IMF debt cannot be rescheduled, Fernandez said. The Philippines rescheduled 10.3 billion dlrs of its 28 billion dlr foreign commercial debt in March. Fernandez said Central Bank bills, introduced in March 1984 to mop up excess liquidity, had peaked at 43.1 billion pesos in April 1986. But their unwinding on maturity dates, started in October last year, had almost been completed. He said auctions of treasury bills, whose outstanding level touched 95.44 billion pesos on May 20, were going well. "Treasury bills will remain a basic monetary tool," he said. Commenting on the country's foreign debt Fernandez said, "I think the Philippine debt stock looms large because our own receipts from exports have not taken the same kind of leap forward as might have been suitable." The foreign debt is projected by the Central Bank to reach 29.04 billion dlrs by the end of 1987. NEDA said exports totalled 1.2 billion dlrs in the first quarter, while imports were 1.4 billion dlrs. Fernandez said the government had targeted GNP growth of between six and 6.5 pct this year. He cautioned that while growth so far was high the targets had not yet been achieved. Fernandez said he saw no merit in arguments by some economists that the peso, currently pegged at 20.50 to the dollar, ought to be devalued to make the country's exports more competitive. "By being pegged to the dollar on a basket basis the peso has already substantially devalued against all of the country's trading partners," he said. On the proposed Omnibus Investment Code, he said he was opposed to a clause which would allow the unrestricted repatriation abroad of investments made during the first two years after the imposition of the Code. The imposition of the Code, scheduled for last January, has been delayed by objections from some business groups. "I think any central bank, certainly this one after the events of the past two or two and a half years, has to be prudent. This is not the time to throw all caution to the winds and I'm not about to do that," Fernandez said. "It would be ideal if we reach a point where movement of capital and earnings can be free," he said. "We have had one year of reasonably good results. Certainly we continue to have a fairly heavy drain on our external availabilities simply by servicing our debts."  
label 25	GERMAN GNP FIGURES PUBLICATION DELAYED Figures for first quarter 1987 West German GNP will be published on June 11 after they were provisionally scheduled for June 4, an official at the Federal Statistics Office said. The official said there had been a delay in gathering information for the data, which are expected to show that the West German economy contracted in the period. A spokesman for the Economics Ministry in Bonn said there was no political motivation behind publishing the figures on June 11, the day after the Venice economic summit ends. "There is no political motivation. It is a purely technical matter," he added. The West German government is expected to come under pressure in Venice from both the U.S. And its European partners to stimulate domestic demand as a way of reducing international trade imbalances and contributing to world economic growth. However, government officials have ruled out any further tax reduction packages to supplement a major program of stimulatory fiscal measures already underway. Helmut Schlesinger, vice-president of the West German central bank, the Bundesbank, said in Tokyo today that GNP, the widest measure of a country's economic activity, fell in real terms by a seasonally adjusted 1/2 to one pct in the first quarter compared with the fourth 1986 period. The government has confirmed that growth was negative in the first 1987 quarter. But year-on-year growth is expected to be about two pct. Schlesinger today repeated the Bundesbank's reluctance to cut its official interest rates further. Its key discount rate, at three pct, is just above historical lows. West German officials are likely to emphasise at the Venice summit that domestic demand, which draws in goods from abroad, is already outstripping export performance, which has suffered from an 80 pct rise of the mark against the dollar in just over two years. The government has pointed out that depressed exports are the main reason for the current weakness in the economy, but says that later in the year stronger domestic demand will compensate for this setback. It expects GNP growth for the whole of 1987 of just under two pct, after a 2.4 pct rise in 1986.  
label 25	PAKISTAN SAYS GOOD ECONOMIC GROWTH CONTINUES Pakistan says its economy has continued its recent outstanding performance during the financial year 1986/87 ending on June 30 but areas like balance of payments, investments and energy were causing concern. GDP grew in line with the average growth rate since 1980 and the inflation rate was the lowest since 1969/70, according to a government economic survey. The reform of economic regulation had gathered momentum and there was an impressive performance in a five point government program for rural uplift, education and poverty alleviation, said the survey. Ministry Economic Adviser Qazi Alimullah told a news conference that before recent unseasonal rains and hailstorms damaged the wheat crop, GDP growth was calculated at 7.04 pct compared to 7.25 pct in 1985/86.He said the figure might now slide down a little to around 6.8 or 6.9 pct. The survey said monetary expansion was estimated to be nine pct to date but might rise to around 12 pct by the year-end. Alimullah said exports rose 18 pct to 3.5 billion dlrs from 2.9 billion dlrs in 1985/86. But the at the same time, home remittances by Pakistanis abroad dropped to 2.3 billion dlrs from the 1985/86 level of 2.595 billion. More exports and an improvement in the balance of payments situation will be required to overcome this declining trend in home remittances, he said. The survey said the trade deficit was expected to fall to 2.4 billion dlrs from three billion dlrs in 1985/86 because of the boost in exports. He said national investment continued to be small because of a poor rate of savings, about 14 pct of GDP. He said more savings were required to maintain or possibly step up the present growth rate and to finance the country's seventh five-year development plan to be launched in July 1988.  
label 25	GERMAN EXPERTS SAY NO FURTHER ECONOMIC STIMULUS The West German government's independent council of economic experts believes a further stimulation of the economy is inappropriate, government spokesman Friedhelm Ost said. A statement released by Ost after a meeting of Chancellor Helmut Kohl and senior government officials with the council said the experts believed 1987 ecomomic growth of 1-1/2 to two pct was achievable. It added the council believed "an intensification of the already expansionary stimulation of monetary and financial policy is not called for." Ost's statement said experts believed further pressure on West Germany to adapt to external economic factors would not increase. The government regularly uses the term "changed external economic factors" when referring to the fall of the dollar, which has severely damaged West German exports. Bonn officials have said they expect exports to pick up during the year, but could still fall below the 1986 level. Along with other leading industrial countries, West Germany agreed to a package of measures at a meeting in Paris in February aimed at stemming the fall of the dollar. The stance taken by the experts backs up the official position of the West German government ahead of next week's seven nation summit in Venice, where Bonn is expected to be pressed by the U.S. And other partners to boost its economy. West German government officials have stressed Bonn is not in a position to stimulate growth further since tax cuts due next year and 1990 are already stretching the budget. The Bundesbank has also ruled out a quick cut in official interest rates although it sees market rates continuing low. The experts' prediction for economic growth this year of between 1-1/2 and two pct is a slight downward revision from a forecast made last November when two pct growth was forecast. Many independent forecasters have revised down 1987 predictions in light of the downturn in exports. The government itself has said it expects growth of just under two pct, compared with a 2.4 pct expansion in 1986.  
label 25	S.KOREA SEES GNP GROWTH MORE THAN 10 PCT THIS YEAR South Korea's gross national product (GNP) will exceed 10 pct real growth this year and the won will rise further as long as the current account surplus continues to widen, Deputy Prime Minister Chun In-Yong told reporters. Chung, who is also Minister of Economic Planning, said his GNP estimate was based on the assumption that the economy will remain stable. The official target for 1987 GNP growth is eight pct. GNP rose 15.6 pct between the first quarters of 1987 and 1986, according to provisional Bank of Korea figures. GNP rose 12.5 pct in calendar 1986. In the first four months of this year, the current account swung to a surplus of 2.5 billion dlrs from a deficit of 294 mln dlrs in the same 1986 period. "What the Minister said does not imply any major economic policy change," a Ministry spokesman told Reuters. "But he tried to urge business circles to prepare for the forseeable economic (future) ... A high won era." South Korean manufacturers, who have insisted the won should not rise more than seven pct this year, have said they plan to ask the government to slow down its appreciation against the dollar. The Bank of Korea today quoted the won unchanged at 812.05 against the dollar, a 6.02 pct gain so far this year compared with a 3.34 pct increase for the whole of 1986. The won strengthened by 6.60 won to the dollar in three days earlier this month while an International Monetary Fund team held talks here to discuss revaluation.  
label 26	CANAM MANAC WINS 8.5 MLN DLR CONTRACT (The Canam Manac Group Inc) said its Canam Steel Works unit received a contract valued at 8.5 mln dlrs to supply steel trusses to (Canron Inc) for a new car plant in Ingersoll, Ontario. Canam Manac said it will produce the trusses at its Quebec and Ontario plants and delivery will be completed by August.  
label 26	TALKING POINT/STEEL COMPANIES Steel stocks, which have had a healthy runup recently, still present some short term investment opportunities, according to some steel analysts. But others say the upturn, based on strong orders and firm prices this spring, has been strictly seasonal and will end soon. They recommend taking profits. "It's that time of year. This is strictly seasonal," said Charles Bradford of Merrill Lynch and Co. "Orders will be strong for about two months, and there are signs that some (order rates) are starting to dive already." But Dean Witter Reynolds Inc analyst Clarence Morrison sees some short-term potential in the group, which includes USX Corp &lt;X>, Bethlehem Steel Corp &lt;BS>, Armco Inc &lt;AS> and Inland Steel Industries Inc &lt;IAD>. "There is still some attractiveness to steels over the short- to intermediate-term based on improved order rates and rising prices," Morrison said. He only recommends one stock, however, Inland, which is modernizing steelmaking operations to make them more efficient. Despite his bearishness, Merrill's Bradford continues to recommend Armco, which he sees as a major turnaround. Armco's steelmaking operations are profitable, the balance sheet has been improved, and its oilfield equipment business has been slimmed and put in a joint venture with USX, Bradford noted. "It's not a high-quality investment situation yet but they've come a long way," he said. "We think the stock will do moderately better than the market," he said. Armco shares, trading off 1/4 at 10 today, could go to 12, and possibly as high as 15, he said. Bradford sees Armco earning 50 to 75 cts a share in 1987, before special gains from recouped investment tax credits, against losses last year. Armco's 1988 earnings could be significantly higher, he said. Bradford is recommending sale of USX shares. "We had a buy on it below 20 but when it gets to 28, let somebody else have it," he said. The steel and energy concern will earn about one dlr a share in 1987, about half of that coming from asset sales, and from two dlrs to 2.50 dlrs in 1988, Bradford said. "But a lot depends on oil prices," he added. About 60 pct of USX's sales come from oil and natural gas. Other analysts, including Michelle Galanter Applebaum of Salomon Brothers Inc, recommend USX. "The company's done a lot (of restructuring), more than the market's given them credit for," she said. She sees the stock going to the mid 30s or higher. USX was trading up 1/8 at 28-1/2. She predicts USX will earn 18 cts a share this year and 2.73 dlrs next year against large losses in 1986. Applebaum, who is also positive on Armco and Inland, has been recommending the stocks since last November. Peter Marcus of Painewebber Inc is neutral on the group although he said the earnings outlook is improved through the third quarter. But he sees potential trouble beyond then. "I think (steel) prices on a bookings basis will start to drop by the summer," he said. Applebaum of Salomon Brothers also sees some seasonal dropoff later in the year. "But there are more positives than negatives," she said, citing reduced capacity in the domestic industry, better prices, and a weaker dollar, which should cause steel imports to drop off slightly from last year.  
label 26	CHINA SULPHUR-IRON MINE STARTS PRODUCTION China's largest sulphur-iron mine has started trial production at Yunfu in the southern province of Guangdong, the China Daily said. It said the mine has an annual output capacity of three mln tonnes of sulphur-iron ore, which can be used without processing because of its high quality.  
label 26	SLATER &lt;SSI.A.TO> PLANS U.S. MODERNIZATION Slater Industries Inc said it planned a 15 mln dlr modernization of its Slater Steels Corp Fort Wayne specialty bar division in Indiana. It said the modernization would involve replacement of the existing bar mill with a high-speed, quick-change continuous mill. The new facility will lower labor and mill costs and enhance product quality and range, Slater said. Completion date of the new mill was undisclosed.  
label 26	EC MINISTERS CONSIDER CUTBACKS IN STEEL SUPPORT A new steel quota system that would strictly limit European Community (EC) support to the industry could be forced on producers if they fail to find their own solution quickly, officials said. EC industry ministers meeting here considered two key proposals aimed at cutting back surplus capacity by 30 mln tonnes by 1990. The first would limit the current quota system, which has protected EC output for seven years, only to flat products and heavy sections, thereby forcing other types of steel products into free market competition. The second proposal would link continuation of a quota system with progress toward plant closures, although less than a month ago the EC steelmakers' lobby group Eurofer said they had abandoned efforts to close plants voluntarily. The ministers stopped short of imposing their own solution immediately, instead urging steel producers to try again to reach agreement on voluntary cutbacks. The EC Commission has said it will come up with detailed proposals in July on the future of the EC steel industry and EC industry ministers meet again in September to reach a final decision.  
label 26	LTV &lt;QLTV> TO NEGOTIATE WITH STEELWORKERS LTV Corp's LTV Steel Corp said it agreed to resume negotiations with the United Steelworkers of America at the local plant levels, to discuss those provisions of its proposal that require local implementation. The local steelworker union narrowly rejected a tentative agreement with the company on May 14, it said. LTV also said it agreed to reopen its offer contained in the tentative agreement reached with the union's negotiating committee as part of a plan to resolve problems through local discussions.  
label 26	USX &lt;X> UNIT RAISES PRICES ON CERTAIN GRADES USX Corp's USS division said it was raising prices for all hot rolled bar and semi-finished products 1100 series grades by 10 dlrs per ton effective July One, 1987. The company said the increase reflects current market conditions. The company could not say what percentage the increase reflects from current prices, nor could it say how much per ton the products sell for currently.  
label 26	STEEL FIRMS STUDY USX &lt;X> UNIT PRICE HIKE Two major steel companies said they were studying a price increase announced yesterday by USX Corp's USS steelmaking division. Spokesman for Armco Inc &lt;AS> and Bethlehem Steel Corp &lt;BS> said the proposed price hike was under study. Yesterday, USS said it plans to raise base prices on plate products by 20 dlrs a ton, or about five pct, effective with shipments October 4. A spokesman for LTV Steel Co, a unit of LTV Corp &lt;QLTV>, declined comment, adding that the company does not make heavy plate and makes few other plate products. A spokesman for &lt;National Steel Corp>, a joint venture of National Intergroup Inc &lt;NII> and Nippon Kokan K.K., said the company is not in the product lines affected. Reached later, an Inland Steel Industries Inc &lt;IAD> spokesman said the company was studying the pricing move. USX said the increase will be on all plate products, including carbon, high-strength low-alloy, strip mill and alloy plates. It also said it planned 20-dlr-a-ton increases on some special plate widths and thicknesses. Analysts have said firm prices for steel should contribute to better results at the nation's major steelmakers.  
label 26	U.S. STEEL FIRMS STUDY USX UNIT PRICE HIKE Two major steel companies said they were studying a price increase announced yesterday by USX Corp's USS steelmaking division. Spokesman for Armco Inc and Bethlehem Steel Corp said the proposed price hike was under study. Yesterday, USS said it plans to raise base prices on plate products by 20 dlrs a short ton, or about five pct, effective with shipments October 4. A spokesman for LTV Steel Co, a unit of LTV Corp, declined comment, adding that the company does not make heavy plate and makes few other plate products.  
label 26	USX &lt;X> UNIT OFFERS STEEL PRICES DIRECTORY USX Corp said its USS division has available a comprehensive sheet steel selection and pricing system detailing the company's full line of products. The company said it was the first complete update in 25 years. The new prices in the book are effective after Oct One, 1987, the company said.  
label 27	WEATHER HURTS ITALIAN ORANGES - USDA REPORT Unfavorable weather conditions during the second week of March caused damage to oranges in the Calabria region in southern Italy, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Rome said in a field report. The report, dated April 3, said the region accounts for about 22,000 hectares of the Italian orange crop or about 26 pct of total production. However, orange production in the region for marketing year 1986/87 is forecast at 565,000 tonnes or 25 pct of the total Italian orange crop, it said. The report said trade contacts agree that about 15 pct of the orange output in Calabria was damaged by frost.  
label 27	USDA 1986/87 U.S. ORANGE CROP 190,050,000  BOXES, FLORIDA CROP 122,900,000 BOXES  USDA 1986/87 U.S. ORANGE CROP 190,050,000  BOXES, FLORIDA CROP 122,900,000 BOXES  
label 27	USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 ORANGE JUICE YIELD  AT 1.50 GALS PER BOX FROM FLORIDA CROP  USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 ORANGE JUICE YIELD  AT 1.50 GALS PER BOX FROM FLORIDA CROP  
label 27	U.S. CITRUS CROP ESTIMATE -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department estimated 1986/87 citrus production, as follows (in boxes) -- Total U.S. orange crop (excluding Florida Temples) -- 190,050,000 boxes, vs 190,850,000 boxes last month and 176,410,000 boxes in the 1985/86 crop. Florida oranges (excluding Temples) -- 122,900,000 boxes, vs 124,000,000 last month and 119,000,000 boxes in 1985/86. Florida Temples -- 3,400,000 boxes, vs 3,400,000 last month and 2,950,000 boxes in 1985/86. The department's estimates are based on April 1 crop conditions.  
label 27	USDA ORANGE JUICE YIELD ESTIMATE The U.S. Agriculture Department projected an average yield of 1.50 gallons of frozen concentrated orange juice per box (42.0 degree brix equivalent) from Florida's 1986/87 crop. That compares with 1.47 gallons per box previously and 1.38 gallons per box from the 1985/86 crop. The crop reporting board said the estimates for the 1986/87 season are based on maturity and yields tests as of April 1.  
label 27	USDA FLORIDA ORANGE REPORT CONSIDERED BEARISH The U.S. Agriculture Department's latest estimates on 1986/87 Florida orange production and orange juice yield are bearish for the frozen concentrated orange juice futures market because the yield increase was greater than expected, FCOJ traders and analysts said. The USDA projected an average yield of 1.50 gallons of FCOJ per box versus last month's estimate of 1.47 gallons. The government estimated Florida orange production (excluding Temples) at 122.9 mln boxes versus 124 mln last month. Temples were unchanged at 3.4 mln boxes. Traders and analysts said the unexpectedly large yield increase outweighed the anticipated drop in box count.  
label 27	FCOJ MOVEMENT 4,496,533 GALLONS LAST WEEK Florida Citrus Processors Association said frozen concentrated orange juice movement into trade channels in the week ended April 4 totalled 4,496,533 gallons versus 5,058,976 gallons in the week ended March 28 and 4,141,578 gallons in the corresponding year-ago period. There were 499,967 gallons of foreign imports last week versus 341,280 gallons the week before. Domestic imports last week were 24,774. Retail movement was 1,741,139 versus 1,464,490 a year ago. Bulk movement was 2,328,368 against 2,139,383 a year earlier. Current season cumulative movement was 79,516,753 gallons versus 76,919,119 last year. Cumulative net pack for the season was 86,254,846 versus 82,355,864 a year ago. Inventory was 75,212,711 versus 75,985,696 a year ago.  
label 27	U.S. TRADE PANEL RULES AGAINST BRAZILIAN  ORANGE JUICE IMPORTS, WILL IMPOSE DUTUES  U.S. TRADE PANEL RULES AGAINST BRAZILIAN  ORANGE JUICE IMPORTS, WILL IMPOSE DUTUES  
label 27	U.S. AGENCY RULES AGAINST BRAZIL ORANGE JUICE The U.S. International Trade Commission, ITC, voted to authorize the Commerce Department to impose anti-dumping duties on imports of Brazilian frozen concentrated orange juice. The ITC voted 3-2 in favor of the anti-dumping petition in its final ruling on the matter. Today's ITC ruling was consistent with the Commerce Department's final ruling of March 9, and activates an anti-dumping duty of 1.96 pct on imports of Brazilian frozen concentrated orange juice, Stephen Vastagh, ITC investigator said. The ITC found that Brazilian orange juice imports have injured U.S. producers. The Commerce Department had already ruled that the imports were unfairly priced, and lowered to 1.96 pct the anti-dumping margin that in a preliminary decision last fall had been set at 8.5 pct, Vastagh said. The U.S. government has been requiring bond to be posted on imports of Brazilian frozen concentrated orange juice since Commerce's preliminary ruling of last October 23, he said. Commerce had ruled that one major Brazilian producer -- Cutrale -- would be excluded from the anti-dumping duty. Brazilian imports account for about 40 pct of total U.S. supply, Vastagh said. Between December 1985 and November 1986, the United States imported the equivalent of 546 mln gallons of Brazilian orange juice worth 622 mln dlrs, he said. Currently, the United States requires a 35-cent per gallon tariff on orange juice imports, Vastagh said. An ITC spokesman said the agency would forward its final report on the anti-dumping case to Commerce by April 22. Commerce then will process the anti-dumping order and transmit it to U.S Customs, which will liquidate bond entries dating from Commerce's preliminary ruling and begin assessing duties, Vastagh said. He said about 12 Brazilian orange juice exporters, including three major shippers, would be affected by the decision.  
label 27	USDA TO REDUCE CITRUS ESTIMATING PROGRAM the U.S. Agriculture Department's National Agricultural Statistics Services (NASS) said it will change its citrus estimate program for California and Arizona, starting in 1988. NASS said it will discontinue California forecasts for lemons during December, February, March, May and June and for grapefruit and tangerines for those months plus November. Forecasts for lemons will be issued in October, November, January, April and July and for grapefruit in October, January, April, and July and for tangerines in October,  January and April. There will be no change in the estimating program for California oranges. Arizona forecasts will be dropped for lemons, oranges, grapefruit and tangerines in November, December February, March, May and June, with forecasts retained in October, January, April and July, it said. There will be no changes in the estimating program for citrus in Texas or Florida.  
label 28	U.S. MARCH RETAIL SALES CUT BY LATE EASTER U.S. retailers' lackluster March sales were due to a late Easter, according to analysts who expect a recovery in April. "Sales look soft because of the Easter shift, but underlying business is better than the numbers indicate," said Bear Stearns analyst Monroe Greenstein. Analysts generally average the sales results of March and April to account for the variation of Easter's occurance. This year, Easter is being observed on April 19, which is three weeks later than last year. Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said sales for March rose an unadjusted 2.5 to 3.0 pct, and a seasonally adjusted 5.5 pct to six pct, compared to an adjusted 5.7 pct last year. "The obvious question is whether these numbers indicate that the consumer activity is slowing, but it does not appear to be because liquidity and employment are rising," said analyst Jeff Edelman, analyst of Drexel Lambert and Burnham. Overall, analysts said first half sales are coming in according to expectations. Sales for all of 1987 are expected to rise about 5.5 pct to six pct, up a bit from 1986's rise. In March, sales of housewares, furniture and big ticket items were stronger than apparel sales, signaling to many analysts that apparel sales will be strong in April as the holiday nears. "Sales gains in home appliances and home fashions reflect a continuing strength in the housing market," said Edward Brennan, chairman of Sears Roebuck and Co &lt;S> which reported an overall sales gain of 4.2 pct. Brennan said sales of women's sportswear were also excellent. "Sears' total apparel sales was up only modestly, but even a modest improvement in apparel is a very good accomplishment due to the fact that most people will buy apparel in April," said C.J. Lawrence analysts Harry Mortner. J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;JCP> and Dayton Hudson Corp &lt;DH> were among the weaker performers with comparable stores sales declining 1.5 pct and 4.9 pct, respectively. Penney's store and catalog sales declined 1.3 pct overall and Dayton Hudson's overall sales rose 4.8 pct. Penney chairman William Howell said, "Sales continued strong for catalog operations and, geographically, ranged from very active in the east to weak in the economically depressed southwest." "Penney's been shifting away from leisure time activity wear to other apparel lines, which yield higher profit margins, but are currently hurting sales," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns. Hudson chairman Kenneth Mackes cited the late Easter for the decline. Edelman of Drexel said that "Hudson had a tougher comparison because it had an exceptionally good 1986." Most analysts agreed that promotions are slightly lower than last year. "Retailers are not planning for much - inventories are being kept lean, markdowns are lower than last year, but sales are coming through anyway," said CJ Analyst Harry Mortner. Mortner said he expects profits in the first quarter to be better than he had originally expected in the beginning of the year. Most retailers report their first quarter in the middle of May. MARCH RETAIL SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS STORE       PCT        1987       1986 SEARS       4.2     2.6 BIL       2.5 BIL K MART      4.6     2.2 BIL       2.1 BIL JC PENNEY  (1.3)    1.1 BIL       1.1 BIL WAL-MART     32     1.1 BIL       855 MLN FEDERATED   4.9     934 MLN       891 MLN MAY         3.5     885 MLN       855 MLN DAYTON      4.8     792 MLN       756 MLN WOOLWORTH   0.2     591 MLN       590 MLN ZAYRE      12.7     522 MLN       464 MLN  
label 28	TURKISH RETAIL PRICES RISE 2.7 PCT IN FEBRUARY Turkish retail prices rose 2.7 pct in February after 2.9 pct in January and 1.7 pct in February 1986, the State Statistics Institute said. Prices in the year to February rose 31.6 pct, compared with 30.3 pct in the year to January and 38.8 pct in the 12 months to February 1986. The index (base 1978/79), covering 14 towns and five regions, was 1,886.8 in February, 1,837.2 in January and 1,434.0 in February 1986.  
label 28	FEBRUARY U.S. RETAIL SALES NOT SIGN OF UPTURN U.S. retailers posted stronger than expected sales in February, but not enough to prompt analysts to change their expectations of sluggish sales growth for the first half of 1987. "My feeling is that it (February) borrowed some of the business we normally see later in the quarter and the real strength of general merchandise sales will be in the second half of 1987," said Bear Stearns and Co analyst Monroe Greenstein. "I don't think March will be as strong because Easter falls in April this year," said Morgan Stanley analyst Walter Loeb. Analysts generally average the sales results of March and April to account for the variation of Easter's occurrence. Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said sales for February rose between six and 6.5 pct, compared to a 3.6 pct increase last year. Analysts noted that February is considered a small, transitory month between winter and spring. In addition, sales comparisons were boosted by an especially soft February last year which was adversely affected by severe weather. Apparel sales outshone other product groups in sales, according to retailers and analysts. "February's strong sales reflected a lot of fresh merchandise on the shelves and higher consumer income due to tax reductions," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns. Analysts expect apparel sales to remain good as sales of durable and houseware items grow softer due to the continuing high levels of consumer debt. May Department Stores Co &lt;MAY> and K Mart Corp &lt;KM> were among the strong performers, posting comparable store sales gains of 9.4 pct and 8.2 pct, respectively. May had an overall sales gain of 15.0 pct and K Mart had a 13.1 pct sales gain last month. "Favorable consumer response to our merchandise programs continued to positively impact our sales comparisons. IN addition to the strong contribution by K Mart stores, all our specialty retailing companies had excellent February sales," said K Mart chairman Bernard Fauber. Sears Roebuck and Co &lt;S> posted a 4.9 pct increase. "Domestic sales were led by better than average increases in apparel, home fashions and hardware and especially strong catalog sales," said Sears chairman Edward Brennan. Analysts were a little disappointed by J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;JCP> which started out with especially strong sales early in the month. Penney posted a 5.5 pct increase on a comparitive store basis and a 5.3 pct gain in overall sales. Penney chairman William Howell said, "store sales were strongest during the early part of the month, while catalog demand was consistently strong throughout the period. Store sales activity varied throughout the country, ranging from good in the East to weak in the depressed southwest. Analysts also said gross profit margins were high as retailers were not overly promotional due to leaner inventories than a year ago. "February is not a big month seasonally but these numbers suggest a fairly good trend for consumer spending," said Drexel Burnham Lambert analyst Jeff Edelman. FEBRUARY SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS STORE          PCT      1987       1986 SEARS             4.9      1.8 BILL   1.8 BILL K MART            13.1     1.5 BILL   1.3 BILL WAL-MART          44.0     885 MLN    615 MLN JC PENNEY         5.3      780 MLN    741 MLN FEDERATED         9.6      720 MLN    657 MLN MAY               15.0     632 MLN    550 MLN DAYTON HUDSON     19.5     602 MLN    504 MLN ZAYRE             25.7     327 MLN    260 MLN MONTGOMERY WARD   11.1     277 MLN    249 MLN  
label 28	N.Z. DECEMBER QUARTER RETAIL SALES FALL 13.2 PCT Retail sales in the quarter ended December 31 fell a seasonally adjusted 13.2 pct compared with a 7.8 pct rise in the September quarter and a 1.3 pct fall a year ago period, the Statistics Department said. Actual retail sales in the December quarter totalled 6.17 billion N.Z. Dlrs compared with 6.70 billion in the previous quarter and 6.10 billion a year ago period. The largest decreases in the December quarter were recorded by the same stores which recorded the highest increase in sales in the September 1986 quarter before the introduction of a 10 pct value added goods and services tax on October 1, 1986.  
label 28	U.S. RETAIL SALES ROSE 4.1 PCT IN FEB, NON-AUTO SALES ROSE 1.5 PCT  U.S. RETAIL SALES ROSE 4.1 PCT IN FEB, NON-AUTO SALES ROSE 1.5 PCT  
label 28	U.S. RETAIL SALES RISE 4.1 PCT IN FEBRUARY U.S. retail sales rose 4.77 billion dlrs, or 4.1 pct, in February to a seasonally adjusted 122.29 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department said. The increase came after a revised 7.4 pct drop in January sales to a level of 117.52 billion dlrs. The department previously reported January retail sales fell 5.8 pct. Excluding autos, retail sales in February were up 1.5 pct after falling by a revised 0.4 pct in January. Department spokesmen said the major cause for the revision downward in January sales was a weaker January auto dealer sales figure than originally estimated. Auto dealer sales were 26.91 billion dlrs in February, a 14.4 pct rise from January levels. But January sales dropped by 27.7 pct from December levels to 23.52 billion dlrs, more than the 22.4 pct fall originally reported. The expiration of the sales tax deduction under new tax laws on January 1 was the main reason for the drop in January sales, department spokesmen said. Sales of durable goods rose in February by 8.8 pct to 46.72 billion dlrs after dropping by 17.7 pct in January. Building materials rose 1.8 pct in February after falling by 1.7 pct in January. Non-durable goods sales rose by 1.3 pct to 75.58 billion dlrs in February after falling by 0.2 pct in January, the department said. General merchandise stores rose 1.4 pct after increasing sales by 1.6 pct in January, and department stores were up two pct in February after rising 1.5 pct in January. Food store sales increased 0.4 pct after declining by 1.0 pct in January, while grocery store sales increased 0.3 pct in February after falling 0.6 pct in January. Gasoline service station sales rose 2.0 pct in February after a 1.9 pct January increase. Apparel store sales were up 0.8 pct last month after falling 3.0 pct in January, while sales at eating and drinking places increased 1.5 pct after rising 0.5 pct in January. February's retail sales were 4.4 pct above the year-ago level of 117.09 billion dlrs, the department said.  
label 28	U.K. RETAILERS SEE GROWTH IN CONSUMER SPENDING U.K. Retailers expect consumer spending to accelerate in March after a disappointing increase in February, according to a monthly survey by the Confederation of British Industry (CBI). Fifty-nine pct of the 325 retailers questioned for the latest Distributive Trades Survey expected sales to be higher in March than they were in March 1986, with only six pct expecting lower sales. The chairman of the Distributive Trades Survey Panel, Nigel Whittaker, said a favourable Budget next week would further help sales during the summer. Figures released earlier this week showed retail sales in January fell 2.2 pct, mainly due to exceptionally cold weather. "Sales did not recover in February as much as retailers had expected, and they are now looking for better business in March," today's survey said. It reported clothing stores were the most optimistic, with 80 pct expecting sales in March to be higher than a year ago. Wholesalers also expected stronger sales in March, while both retailers and wholesalers reported slower growth in import penetration, it said.  
label 28	WHITE HOUSE WELCOMES RETAIL SALES FIGURES The White House welcomed the February retail sales figures showing a 4.1 pct rise, following a slow performance in January. Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters: "The February sales growth was broad-based and good news for the economy." Commerce Department figures showed a larger than expected rise following depressed levels of sales and factory orders in January.  
label 28	U.S. RETAIL SALES RISE MASKS WEAK TREND - ANALYSTS U.S. retail sales rose sharply in February but many economists said the underlying consumer spending trend remains weak. February retail sales jumped 4.1 pct, more than the 2.5-3.0 pct rise the financial markets had anticipated. But January's sales were revised down to a 7.4 pct drop, from a previously reported 5.8 pct decline. "The trend is toward continued spending but certainly at a much more sluggish pace," said Don Maude of Midland Montagu Capital Markets Inc. Maude averaged out the wide swings in the retail sales data over past four months to show that the pace of consumer spending is slowing. Combining the latest data with a 0.6 pct drop in November and a 4.6 pct gain in December, the average retail sales gain over the four months was 0.2 pct, he said, compared to to a 0.4 pct rise for year-over-year sales through February. "You can see a pattern developing," Maude said. "I wouldn't be surprised to see a fall-off in March, especially since sales probably won't be boosted by auto sales as they were in February." Despite the weak underlying trend, economists were impressed by a robust 1.5 pct gain in total sales excluding autos in February. This compared to a revised 0.4 pct decline in January, previously reported as a 0.1 pct decline. "The increase in non-auto sales was broadbased, with gains in durable goods as well as non-durables," noted Ward McCarthy of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. "It was a pretty healthy report." He noted that building materials rose 1.8 pct in February after falling 1.7 pct in January. General merchandise store sales gained 1.4 pct after a 1.6 pct rise in January. "There are signs of life in the economy," McCarthy said. "But it's jumping to conclusions to extrapolate this report into the future." A 0.7 pct increase in disposable personal income in January which may be linked to the new tax laws probably helped boost spending in February, he said. "A lot of people may be inadvertently under-withholding taxes from their paychecks," he said. "When people in this country get an increase in disposable income, the inclination is to go out and spend it," he said. Economists said tomorrow's release of U.S. auto sales for the first 10 days of March will be an important indicator of how much this sector will add to first quarter spending. Auto sales accounted for the lion's share of total February sales, rising 14.4 pct. This followed a 27.7 pct drop in January, previously reported as a 22.4 pct fall, due largely to the expiration of the sales tax deduction under new tax laws January 1, the Commerce Department noted. Some economists argued that the because the gain in total sales excluding autos also followed a decline in January, the strength in the February report is less than impressive. "There is strength in the February data, but that's because they were compared to low sales levels in January," said said Beth Reiners of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "We don't see it as a precursor of continued strength." Durable goods sales rose 8.8 pct in February, after falling 17.7 pct in January. February non-durable goods sales gained 1.3 pct, after declining 0.2 pct in January. Gasoline service station sales rose two pct in February, following a 1.9 pct gain in January, but economists said higher oil prices rather than an increased volume of gas sales probably accounted for these gains. Reiners also emphasized that the trend in consumer spending is weakening. Total retail sales on average were 123 billion dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1986, she said. In January, they fell to a seasonally adjusted 117.52 bilion dlrs, and in February rose to 122.29 billion dlrs. "On average, it looks like they'll total 120 to 121 mln dlrs in the first quartrer," she said. "We don't look at this as indication that the economy is barrelling along." "The number is not really that problematic for those of us who are constructive on the bond market," agreed Elliot Platt of Donaldsen Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp. Platt does not foresee potential for tighter monetary policy on the basis of the latest retail sales report. "The Fed is on hold now because the data have been so confusing," he said. "Before the 337,000 gain in February non-farm payroll employment, I would have looked for a discount rate cut in March," he said. "But now Fed officials will have to wait for the first quarter real U.S. gross national product data in April to sort things out."  
label 28	GERMAN RETAIL TURNOVER RISES ONE PCT IN JANUARY West German retail turnover rose a real one pct in January compared with the same month a year earlier, according to provisional data from the Federal Statistics Office. There were 26 shopping days in January this year, the same as in January 1986, a Statistics Office statement said. A Statistics Office official added retail turnover had risen by 7.6 pct in December compared with the year-ago month, a slight upward revision from the 7.5 pct increase provisionally posted.  
label 29	U.K. MARCH PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.3 PCT The price index for sales of manufactured goods in the U.K. Rose a provisional, unadjusted 0.3 pct in March after an identical rise in February, Department of Trade and Industry figures show. The index for materials and fuel purchased by manufacturing industry fell a provisional and unadjusted 1.1 pct after a 1.7 pct fall in February. The Department said the year-on-year rise in producer prices in March was a provisional 3.7 pct, compared with a provisional 4.2 pct increase in the year to end-February. The index for output prices, non-seasonally adjusted, was put at a provisional 149.7 in March after 149.3 in February. The index for input prices, also not seasonally adjusted, was set at 128.2 in March after February's 129.6. The 1.1 pct fall in input prices between February and March was mainly due to a seasonal fall in industrial electricity costs and lower scheduled prices for petroleum products, the Department said. The Department said these falls were only partly offset by a rise in prices of home-produced food manufacturing materials. The seasonally adjusted index for input prices showed a 0.2 pct rise between February and March. Year-on-year, the input price index was down 0.7 pct in March after a 2.8 pct drop in February.  
label 29	U.K. PRODUCER PRICES SEEN MOVED BY TECHNICALITIES U.K. Producer price data for March were roughly as expected after taking into account technical factors which affected the year-on-year outcome, economic analysts said. The figures showed a 0.3 pct provisional, non-seasonally adjusted rise in output prices in March, unchanged from February and close to the average for the last six months. The year-on-year rise was put at 3.7 pct, down from 4.2 pct in February. But Chris Tinker, economist at brokerage house Phillips and Drew, said the drop in the year-on-year rate mainly reflected a rise in excise duties which affected the index in March last year. He cautioned that it was dangerous to read too much into the monthly figure, adding that a rise of only 0.2 pct in April would take the year-on-year rise back above 4.2 pct. Analysts also noted that a drop in manufacturers' input prices was almost entirely due to anticipated seasonal factors such as a fall in industrial electricity costs. Duncan Squire of Lloyds Merchant Bank said the figures were slightly disappointing in that the strengthening of sterling had not yet reduced input prices as much as expected. Both he and Tinker said this factor should help keep input costs down over the next few months, although Tinker added that last year's fall in oil prices is now about to drop out of the year-on-year comparisons and is likely to lead to a return to rises in the index rather than falls.  
label 29	GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES FALL 0.1 PCT IN MARCH West German producer prices fell 0.1 pct in March compared with February to stand 3.9 pct lower than in March last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In February, producer prices fell 0.3 pct from January and dropped 4.2 pct from their levels a year earlier. The Statistics Office said producer prices for natural gas had fallen 3.0 pct in March against February, heavy heating oil prices were 3.2 pct down, liquefied gas prices fell 14 pct and coffee was 7.4 pct cheaper.  
label 29	Japan March wholesale prices rise 0.2 pct (0.1 pct February drop) - official  Japan March wholesale prices rise 0.2 pct (0.1 pct February drop) - official  
label 29	INDIA'S ANNUAL INFLATION RATE DROPS MARGINALLY The Finance Ministry said India's wholesale-price linked inflation rate dropped marginally to 5.3 pct in all fiscal 1986/87 ended March from 5.8 pct in 1985/86 and 7.1 pct in 1984/85. The average wholesale-price related inflation stood at 5.2 pct in March this year against 5.1 pct a year ago, the Ministry said in a statement. It said wholesale prices of cement, textiles and jute fell in 1986/87, compared with the previous year, but milk, cereals (mainly wheat and rice), fruits and vegetables, edible oils, tobacco and fertilisers were costlier in 1986/87.  
label 29	ITALIAN WHOLESALE PRICES UP 0.2 PCT IN FEBRUARY Italy's wholesale price index rose 0.2 pct month-on-month in February 1987 after increasing by 1.1 pct in January, the national statistics institute ISTAT said. The index, base 1980 equals 100, registered 173.1 in February compared with 172.8 in January. The February figure represents a decline of 0.2 pct compared with February 1986 after a year-on-year decline in January 1987 of 1.7 pct.  
label 29	S. KOREAN WHOLESALE PRICES UP 0.4 PCT IN MAY South Korea's wholesale price index, base 1980, rose 0.4 pct to 127.0 in May after a 1.1 pct rise in April and was 1.5 pct higher than in May 1986, the Bank of Korea said. The May consumer price index, which has the same base, rose 1.4 pct to 149.1 after a 0.3 pct gain in April, for a year-on-year rise of 3.5 pct. Wholesale prices rose 2.0 pct in the first five months of 1986, while consumer prices rose by 3.2 pct. Bank officials said the rises were due to a strong yen which made imports of Japanese parts, raw and intermediary materials more expensive.  
label 29	S. AFRICAN PRODUCER PRICE INFLATION RISES IN APRIL South African year-on-year producer price inflation rose to 16.1 pct in April against 15.8 pct in March, Central Statistics Office figures show. The all items index (base 1980) rose a monthly 1.2 pct to 242.5 in April after increasing 1.1 pct to 239.6 in March and standing at 208.9 a year earlier.  
label 29	GERMAN PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.1 PCT IN MAY West German producer prices rose 0.1 pct in May compared with April to stand 2.9 pct lower than in May last year, the Federal Statistics Office said. In April, producer prices fell 0.3 pct from March and dropped 3.6 pct from their levels a year earlier. The Statistics Office said producer prices for liquefied gas fell 10 pct in May from April and heavy heating oil prices declined 5.3 pct, while lead prices rose 23 pct and silver prices increased 13 pct.  
label 29	BELGIAN WHOLESALE PRICES FALL IN JANUARY Belgian wholesale prices fell by 5.9 pct in January from a year earlier after a 5.7 pct year on year fall in December, figures from the economics ministry show. A ministry spokesman said the wholesale price index, base 1953 and excluding value added tax, stood at 250.9 in January. This compared with 251.9 in December, 265.5 in Janua~y, 1986 and 267.2 in December, 1985. In January 1986, wholesale prices were 3.9 pct lower than a year earlier.  
label 30	ANDRIESSEN HINTS FATS/OIL TAX COULD GO TO SUMMIT European Community (EC) Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen said his proposal for a tax of up to 330 European Currency Units per tonne on oils and fats was likely to go up for discussion at next week's summit meeting of EC leaders. EC farm ministers have been unable to agree the tax, one of the main items proposed by Andriessen for the 1987-88 farm price package. The tax, which would apply on both domestically-produced and imported oils and fats, has been fiercely opposed by the United States and developing countries' vegetable and marine oil producers.  
label 30	ACP STATES SAY EC OILS TAX PLAN BREAKS ACCORDS Developing countries said the European Community (EC) would breach two international agreements if it went ahead with its plans for an oils and fats tax. Ambassadors to the EC from African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) states told a press conference the tax would hit the exports of 26 ACP countries. They said the EC failed to follow consultation procedures laid down in the Lome Convention which regulates relations between ACP states and the bloc for moves which could affect trade between the two sides. They also said the EC would be in breach of an undertaking not to bring in new protectionist measures during the current Punta del Este round of world trade negotiations being held under GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade) auspices. The EC Commission has proposed a tax of up to 330 European currency units (Ecus) a tonne on both imported and EC-produced vegetable and marine fats for human consumption, which could raise up to two billion Ecus a year. EC farm ministers, who would have to approve such a tax, are split on the issue and are expected to decide it at a marathon meeting on EC farm prices beginning in Luxembourg on June 15. Jamaican ambassador Leslie Wilson said ACP countries are convinced this would lead to EC industry substituting products made within the bloc for oil and fat imports. The ACP estimates this would result in a fall of 160 to 185 mln Ecus in its member country exports. "We can't believe the EC would willingly take measures to undermine our countries, but such would be the impact of these measures," Wilson said. The U.S. and Malaysia say their exports would also be hit by the proposed tax and they may take retaliatory action if it is approved. Wilson said the ACP would take such steps only "as a very last resort," but added that the ACP is in touch with other countries which oppose the plan. Wilson, who was chairing the news conference, made it clear Jamaica itself would not be hit by the tax as it does not export oils and fats. Among the worst hit countries would be Ivory Coast, Senegal, Nigeria and Papua New Guinea, the ACP says.  
label 30	DUTCH PARLIAMENT BACKS STAND AGAINST OILS TAX Dutch parliamentary parties have re-affirmed their support for the government's opposition to the proposed European Community tax on oils and fats, parliamentarians said. A broad cross-section of members of parliament voiced their opposition to the tax during a debate in the lower house yesterday on the basis of possible retaliation from the U.S. And on the potentially damaging effect on Third World countries. State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Rene Van Der Linden said the government was against the tax although it noted deepening EC financial difficulties. "It is difficult to be against the tax and against extra finance. The EC members have to make a choice," Van Der Linden said. However, he denied the government had dropped its opposition to the proposed tax or altered its position.  
label 30	RPT - OPPOSITION TO EC OILS TAX INTACT - MINISTER A minority group of European Community countries strong enough to block the adoption of a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats is still intact after the EC Commission proposed changes to its proposals earlier today, British agriculture minister John MacGregor told journalists. He said Britain, West Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark continue to oppose the tax after the Commission proposed making it temporary and promising compensation to any third countries whose exports suffered.  
label 30	DUTCH CONSUMERS/INDUSTRY SEE VEG OILS TAX THREAT Dutch consumers and food processors would be hit hard by the proposed EC tax on oils and fats, Dick de Bruyn, chairman of the commodity board for margarine, fats and oils, MVO, said at the annual meeting. The Dutch are the second largest consumers of margarine and fourth largest consumers of vegetable oils in the EC. The fiercely contested tax would be a levy on consumers and steeply increase the costs of industries such as potato processing and cake and biscuit manufacturing, de Bruyn said. "A move by these industries to countries outside the EC cannot be ruled out," he added. De Bruyn said the tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats would be wide open to fraud, difficult to police, and hugely expensive administratively. He also said the proposed tax contravened not only article three of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the Lome Convention, and the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) guidelines, but also the EC's own Treaty. The proposed tax would not only be inflationary but also have consequences for employment and investment, he added.  
label 30	EC COMMISSION DEFENDS OILS AND FATS TAX A spokesman for the European Community Commission defended the controversial plan for a levy on oils and fats, saying that consumers would have to help alleviate the surplus problem by paying the proposed tax. Norbert Tanghe, head of division of the Commission's Directorate General for Agriculture, told the 8th Antwerp Oils and Fats Contact Days "the Commission firmly believes that the sacrifices which would be undergone by Community producers in the oils and fats sector ... Would justify asking consumers to make an appropriate contribution to solving the serious problem within that sector by paying a levy." The proposed tax is necessary because the level of budgetary costs resulting from olive oil and oilseeds production has become unacceptable, Tanghe said. Recent estimates put these costs at 4.0 billion European Currency Units and by 1990 they would rise by another 2.0 billion Ecus, he said. In 1990 the Community's "standstill" agreements with Spain and Portugal end and the EC would then feel the full impact of its enlargement. The Commission has proposed several cost and production cutting measures which include the introduction of a maximum guaranteed quantity system, he added. Under the Commission's system for stabilising consumer prices in the oils and fats sector, a reference price of 700 Ecus per tonne for refined soy oil would be introduced, Tanghe said. Consumer prices could be raised or lowered by a regulatory amount when market prices are below or above this level. He said the revenue generated by charging a regulatory amount would be used to finance the Common Agricultural Policy's oils and fats regime. "The Commission believes that hostile reactions (to the proposed tax) have for the most part been based on incomplete or an insufficiently thorough analysis of the proposal," he said. Tanghe said the proposed system conforms with General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, rules. It would not be discriminatory because it would be applied to domestic and imported products, and past experience showed it would not cause any decline in consumption of oils and fats. EC-produced oilseeds would not benefit more than they do under present aid arrangements, he said. The competitiveness between different oils, whether EC produced or imported, would remain unchanged and quantities imported from third countries would not be affected by the tax, Tanghe said. The proposed system would not alter the EC nations' requirements as far as imports are concerned since the overall effect would stabilise Community production levels without affecting demand, he said. It is one of the proposal's objectives to maintain current import levels, he said. Imports of soybeans would be unaffected because they are imported primarily to satisfy the EC's cakes and meals requirements, which are not covered by the stabilising system. Furthermore, more than half the oil produced from imported beans is re-exported to third countries, Tanghe added.  
label 30	EC PRESIDENCY PREPARED TO DROP OILS AND FATS TAX Belgium, current holder of the European Community presidency, appears ready to drop a controversial oils and fats tax from this year's hotly-contested farm price package, diplomats said. In a discussion document prepared for today's summit meeting of EC leaders, Belgium proposed the so-called "stabilising mechanism" be the subject of "further study and consultation with the Community's main trading partners." The proposal for a tax of as much as 330 Ecus per tonne on both imported and domestically-produced vegetable and marine oils and fats has attracted a storm of international criticism. The discussion document, aimed at preventing a cash row at the summit and breaking the deadlock at this year's farm price talks, contained the first formal reference to dropping the measure. Britain and Denmark, which assumes the EC presidency on June 30, have led the opposition to the measure. They are supported by West Germany and the Netherlands and, to a lesser extent, Spain. Although the paper was not universally welcomed, diplomats said, the proposal to postpone consideration of the tax for a further six months was certain to survive any redrafting.  
label 30	EC FARM MINISTERS TO MEET TOMORROW AFTER SUMMIT European Community agriculture ministers will meet tomorrow evening, after the end of a two-day summit meeting of heads of government, to again attempt to agree a 1987/88 farm price package, an EC Commission spokesman said. He added that tomorrow's EC Official Journal will contain notice of special agricultural measures of a purely technical nature which will come into effect on July 1 unless the ministers reach an accord. The spokesman declined to detail these special measures but said they would not be the sort of "dynamic" moves which EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen has said he would take in the case of complete deadlock among farm ministers. These moves would be taken only if tomorrow's meeting of ministers in Brussels again fails to reach an accord, EC sources said. Andriessen is thought to be prepared to cut cereals prices by seven pct and to take other drastic action, trade sources said. EC farm ministers ended their last meeting on June 18 still split over the Commission's proposal for a tax on vegetable and marine oils and fats. In addition, West Germany said it would veto plans for cereal price cuts and for a change in the green currency system. Earlier today, diplomats said Belgium, the current holder of the European Community presidency, appears ready to drop the plans for the controversial oils and fats tax.  
label 30	FRANCO-GERMAN PARLEY FAILS TO UNBLOCK FARM TALKS A specially convened Franco-German meeting in the sidelines of a summit of EC leaders failed to make any progress over a 1987-88 farm price package that has deeply split the two former EC allies, diplomats said The meeting was attended by farm ministers and foreign ministers from both countries and by French President Francois Mitterand, his Prime Minister Jacques Chirac, and by Chancellor Helmut Kohl of West Germany. The stalemate over farm prices is seen as a key to providing a solution to a long-term settlement of the Community's worst-ever budget crisis. "The Germans clearly do not want to budge," an aide to Chirac told reporters. He added the French Prime Minister was visibly angered as he the hour-long meeting. Bonn and Paris are diametrically opposed to a proposal for the Brussels Executive Commission to overhaul radically the EC's complex "green" currrency system, designed to translate common EC farm prices into national currencies. Paris also supports a move for an oils and fats tax which West Germany is against, along with Britain, Denmark and the Netherlands. EC farm minsters are due to resume negotiations on the package, which should have been agreed by an April 1 deadline tomorrow. Diplomats said it had been hoped that the summit could have injected fresh impetus into those talks. The Commission proposed its package to save one billion dollars on the EC's ever-rising farm budget. The summit has been dominated by lengthy talks on moves to alter the entire system of financing the 12-nation group, and plugging a 5.7 billion dollar budget shortfall for 1987.  
label 30	LYNG SAYS INDIA FOOD AID PACKAGE NOT READY The United States and India have not yet agreed on a food aid package to help the drought-stricken Asian country, Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said. Lyng told Reuters in an interview that the two countries have been discussing a package but that he did not expect the specifics of the offer to be announced during Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's visit here this week. "We have been talking about the potential needs that India might have for both their commercial market and purchases needs as well as the possibilities of assistance," Lyng said. "At this point, there is no detailed plan or program. The amounts of what commodities are uncertain. But we have indicated to the Indians that we stand ready to assist in whatever way they deem most valuable," he said. There has been speculation in trade circles that USDA would offer India subsidized vegetable oil under the export enhancement program and donate surplus corn under Section 419 of an amended 1949 law. Lyng indicated the two countries have been unable to agree on the mix of concessional and commercial aid, and that Washington would prefer the package include something other than donated food. "The Indians are capable of purchasing a lot, of taking care of themselves. India is a country that has come a long way in its ability to produce food and they have a great pride in that," Lyng said. "We (the United States) obviously, with the surpluses we still have of many commodities..., would like to share in the import business the Indians do, and then we have some, as we always do, compassion for the people of India and would like to cooperate with them," he said. Lyng said he had no plans to meet with Indian officials during Gandhi's visit here, adding, "I just don't know of anything that might be announced specifically." Asked if "the ball was in the Indians' court," he said, "Yes." Gandhi is to leave Washington Tuesday evening.  
