label 0	ASIAN EXPORTERS FEAR DAMAGE FROM U.S.-JAPAN RIFT Mounting trade friction between the U.S. And Japan has raised fears among many of Asia's exporting nations that the row could inflict far-reaching economic damage, businessmen and officials said. They told Reuter correspondents in Asian capitals a U.S. Move against Japan might boost protectionist sentiment in the U.S. And lead to curbs on American imports of their products. But some exporters said that while the conflict would hurt them in the long-run, in the short-term Tokyo's loss might be their gain. The U.S. Has said it will impose 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on imports of Japanese electronics goods on April 17, in retaliation for Japan's alleged failure to stick to a pact not to sell semiconductors on world markets at below cost. Unofficial Japanese estimates put the impact of the tariffs at 10 billion dlrs and spokesmen for major electronics firms said they would virtually halt exports of products hit by the new taxes. "We wouldn't be able to do business," said a spokesman for leading Japanese electronics firm Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd &lt;MC.T>. "If the tariffs remain in place for any length of time beyond a few months it will mean the complete erosion of exports (of goods subject to tariffs) to the U.S.," said Tom Murtha, a stock analyst at the Tokyo office of broker &lt;James Capel and Co>. In Taiwan, businessmen and officials are also worried. "We are aware of the seriousness of the U.S. Threat against Japan because it serves as a warning to us," said a senior Taiwanese trade official who asked not to be named. Taiwan had a trade trade surplus of 15.6 billion dlrs last year, 95 pct of it with the U.S. The surplus helped swell Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves to 53 billion dlrs, among the world's largest. "We must quickly open our markets, remove trade barriers and cut import tariffs to allow imports of U.S. Products, if we want to defuse problems from possible U.S. Retaliation," said Paul Sheen, chairman of textile exporters &lt;Taiwan Safe Group>. A senior official of South Korea's trade promotion association said the trade dispute between the U.S. And Japan might also lead to pressure on South Korea, whose chief exports are similar to those of Japan. Last year South Korea had a trade surplus of 7.1 billion dlrs with the U.S., Up from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985. In Malaysia, trade officers and businessmen said tough curbs against Japan might allow hard-hit producers of semiconductors in third countries to expand their sales to the U.S. In Hong Kong, where newspapers have alleged Japan has been selling below-cost semiconductors, some electronics manufacturers share that view. But other businessmen said such a short-term commercial advantage would be outweighed by further U.S. Pressure to block imports. "That is a very short-term view," said Lawrence Mills, director-general of the Federation of Hong Kong Industry. "If the whole purpose is to prevent imports, one day it will be extended to other sources. Much more serious for Hong Kong is the disadvantage of action restraining trade," he said. The U.S. Last year was Hong Kong's biggest export market, accounting for over 30 pct of domestically produced exports. The Australian government is awaiting the outcome of trade talks between the U.S. And Japan with interest and concern, Industry Minister John Button said in Canberra last Friday. "This kind of deterioration in trade relations between two countries which are major trading partners of ours is a very serious matter," Button said. He said Australia's concerns centred on coal and beef, Australia's two largest exports to Japan and also significant U.S. Exports to that country. Meanwhile U.S.-Japanese diplomatic manoeuvres to solve the trade stand-off continue. Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party yesterday outlined a package of economic measures to boost the Japanese economy. The measures proposed include a large supplementary budget and record public works spending in the first half of the financial year. They also call for stepped-up spending as an emergency measure to stimulate the economy despite Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's avowed fiscal reform program. Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith and Makoto Kuroda, Japan's deputy minister of International Trade and Industry (MITI), are due to meet in Washington this week in an effort to end the dispute.  
label 0	JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS A top U.S. Official said Japan has little chance of convincing the U.S. To drop threatened trade sanctions, despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left for Washington today. Michael Armacost, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, was asked at a press conference whether Japan's moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese imports said, and replied: "...It is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described." Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports, remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues. "There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area, but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues," he said. "The question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the (trade) imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation," he said.  
label 0	JAPANESE OFFICIAL TAKES DATA TO MICROCHIP TALKS Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) Vice Minister Makoto Kuroda leaves for Washington today with data he hopes will refute U.S. Charges Japan has violated a pact on microchip trade. A three-man Japanese trade team is already in Washington laying the groundwork for talks between Kuroda and Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith aimed at persuading the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on certain Japanese products. But Kuroda said he is taking no new proposals. "I have nothing in my briefcase except an explanation of the current situation," Kuroda told the daily newspaper Asahi Shimbun. Kuroda said the U.S. Decision was based on incorrect data and an exaggerated sense of MITI's power to control market forces. "The U.S. Has excessive expectations. To stabilise supply-demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time," he said. Kuroda also laid part of the blame for low U.S. Chip sales in Japan on a lack of effort by American firms here. He said if he fails in talks tomorrow and Friday to forestall sanctions, he will seek further talks with U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter. U.S. Officials said this week's talks are unlikely to delay imposition of tariffs.  
label 0	JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS A top U.S. Official said Japan has little chance of persuading the U.S. to drop threatened trade sanctions, despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left for Washington today. Michael Armacost, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, was asked at a press conference whether Japan's moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese imports said, and replied: "...It is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described." Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports, remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues. "There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area, but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues," he said. "The question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the (trade) imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation," he said.  
label 0	JAPAN IN LAST-DITCH EFFORT TO AVERT TARIFFS Senior Japanese officials tomorrow open talks with American trade negotiators in a last-ditch effort to avert new high U.S. tariffs to be imposed on a wide variety of Japanese electronic exports. Makoto Kuroda, vice minister of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), is to hold two days of meetings with the Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, Michael Smith, and the Under Secretary of Commerce, Bruce Smart. The new tariffs, to go into effect on April 17, are in retaliation for Japan's failure to adhere to an agreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at below cost and to open its home market to U.S. semiconductor shipments. They are to be imposed on goods which use semiconductors, including television and audio equipment and computers. Both U.S. and Japanese officials have said there was little likelihood the talks would do anything to avert the 100 pct duties on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese shipments. President Reagan announced the planned tariffs on March 27 after he said that close monitoring of the July 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pact convinced U.S. officials that Japan was not honoring the agreement. In making the annoucement, Reagan said "I am committed to the full enforcement of our trade agreements designed to provide American industry with free and fair trade." Trade analysts said his move was aimed as much at Japan's semiconductor trade practices, which are said to have injured the U.S. semiconductor industry, as Congress, which has complained about presidential timidity on trade issues. Congressional Democrats have pledged to enact aggressive trade laws to counter what they contend has been Reagan's inaction to redress the growing U.S. trade deficit, which last year reached 169.8 billion dlrs. About one-third of the deficit was with Japan. Reagan said there were recent signs Japan was beginning to adhere to the pact and that was why he was not terminating it. Kuroda said on leaving Tokyo today he had no new proposals but did have an explanation of the semiconductor situation. He told the daily newspaper Ashai Shimbun that Reagan's decision was based on inaccurate data and an exaggerated sense of MITI's power to control Japanese traders. "The United States has excessive expectations.," he said. To stabilize supply-demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time." He also said that U.S. firms had not been aggressive enough in trying to sell in the Japanese market.  
label 1	CHINA DAILY SAYS VERMIN EAT 7-12 PCT GRAIN STOCKS A survey of 19 provinces and seven cities showed vermin consume between seven and 12 pct of China's grain stocks, the China Daily said. It also said that each year 1.575 mln tonnes, or 25 pct, of China's fruit output are left to rot, and 2.1 mln tonnes, or up to 30 pct, of its vegetables. The paper blamed the waste on inadequate storage and bad preservation methods. It said the government had launched a national programme to reduce waste, calling for improved technology in storage and preservation, and greater production of additives. The paper gave no further details.  
label 1	USDA SEEKS COMMENTS ON GRAIN DISCOUNT SCHEDULE The U.S. Agriculture Department is seeking public comments on the question of adjusting the Commodity Credit Corporation's (CCC) discount and premium schedules to improve the quality of grain it accepts as loan collateral or under price support programs. The premiums and discounts schedule are based on quality factors such as moisture content and kernel damage. The schedule stipulates the premiums and discounts used for valuing grain the CCC accepts or purchases during the year. The department said it is possible that producers could be encouraged to delivery higher quality grain to CCC by adjusting the premiums and discounts. Comments are due by April 24 and a report to Congress is required by law by May 10.  
label 1	ARGENTINE GRAIN BELT WEATHER REPORT ARGENTINE GRAIN BELT TEMPERATURES (CENTIGRADE) AND RAIN (MM) IN THE 24 HOURS TO 12.00 GMT WERE: ...............MAX TEMP..MIN TEMP..RAINFALL BUENOS AIRES.......24.......12............0 BAHIA BLANCA.......22........7............0 TRES ARROYOS.......22........8............0 TANDIL.............22........7............0 JUNIN..............24.......11............0 SANTA ROSA.........--........6............0 CORDOBA............23.......12............1 SANTA FE...........21.......18...........17 REUTER  
label 1	USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  28.0 MLN TONNES VS 26.0 IN MARCH, 29.9 YEAR AGO  USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  28.0 MLN TONNES VS 26.0 IN MARCH, 29.9 YEAR AGO  
label 1	USDA ESTIMATES 1986 SOVIET GRAIN CROP  AT 210 MLN TONNES VS 210 IN MARCH, 192 YEAR-AGO  USDA ESTIMATES 1986 SOVIET GRAIN CROP  AT 210 MLN TONNES VS 210 IN MARCH, 192 YEAR-AGO  
label 2	AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS BUT NSW PORTS HIT Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW), Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute, shipping sources said. The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim, had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels, they said. The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration Commission today. Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said. The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the state's workers' compensation laws. The shipping sources said the various port unions appear to be taking it in turn to work for a short time at the start of each shift and then to walk off. Cargo handling in the ports has been disrupted, with container movements most affected, but has not stopped altogether, they said. They said they could not say how long the disruption will go on and what effect it will have on shipping movements.  
label 2	AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW), Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute, shipping sources said. The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim, had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels, they said. The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration Commission today. Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said. The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the state's workers' compensation laws.  
label 2	INDEPENDENT CHAIRMAN FOR DUTCH CARGO DISPUTE The two sides in the Rotterdam port general cargo dispute have agreed to appoint an independent chairman, Han Lammers, to preside over future meetings, employers' spokesman Gerard Zeebregts said. Lammers, Queen's Commissioner for the province of Flevoland, will not act as a mediator but will draw up an agenda and procedures for meetings between the employers and unions on a work-practice agreement and proposed redundancies. Two months of strikes in the sector began on January 19 in protest at employers' proposals for 350 redundancies from the 4,000-strong workforce this year. The strikes were called off by the main port union FNV on March 13 following an Amsterdam court's interim injunction against the redundancies on procedural grounds. The court is due to make a final ruling on May 7 but Zeebregts said he expected the judgment to go against the employers and they were therefore very likely to restart the complicated legal redundancy procedures in the near future. Meanwhile, the dispute over a new work-practice agreement in the port's grain sector continued, with 30 maintenance workers on strike, although loading was not affected, a spokesman for Graan Elevator Mij, the largest employer in the sector, said. The employers have written to the union asking it to reconsider its position and a meeting of union members has been called for tomorrow.  
label 2	TODD SHIPYARDS &lt;TOD> STRUCK ON WEST COAST Todd Shipyards Corp said production workers represented by the multi-union Pacific Coast Metal Trades District Council at its San Francisco division struck on April Six. It said negotiations are expected to resume at the end of this month. Todd also said the collective bargaining division in effect at its Galveston Division expires April 17, and negotiations with the Galveston Metal Trades Council are continuing. The company said results of balloting on a new collective bargaining agreement proposal in its Seattle Division are expected to be tabulated at the close of business tomorrow. The Pacific Coast Council has recommended acceptance of that proposal by membership, Todd said.  
label 2	AUSTRALIAN UNIONS AND NSW GOVERNMENT REACH DEAL Union and New South Wales government officials have reached a compromise in a dispute over workers compensation, averting increased industrial action in the state, union sources said. But some unions, including those of building and mining workers, said they were dissatisfied with the deal and would continue their strikes for a few more days. State officials said the government had agreed to revise its proposals to cut compensation and would allow slightly higher cash benefits for injured workers. Under the original proposal, which sparked strikes and other industrial action in the state on April 7, workers' compensation would have been cut by one third. Full details of the compromise package are not yet known. The Labour Council, affiliated to the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU), had threatened to paralyse New South Wales unless the government modified its pending legislation on the issue. State officials said the only sectors affected in the past three days were some government building projects, railway freight movement and cargo handling in Sydney's ports.  
label 3	WESTERN MINING TO OPEN NEW GOLD MINE IN AUSTRALIA Western Mining Corp Holdings Ltd &lt;WMNG.S> (WMC) said it will establish a new joint venture gold mine in the Northern Territory at a cost of about 21 mln dlrs. The mine, to be known as the Goodall project, will be owned 60 pct by WMC and 40 pct by a local W.R. Grace and Co &lt;GRA> unit. It is located 30 kms east of the Adelaide River at Mt. Bundey, WMC said in a statement It said the open-pit mine, with a conventional leach treatment plant, is expected to produce about 50,000 ounces of gold in its first year of production from mid-1988. Annual ore capacity will be about 750,000 tonnes.  
label 3	BELGIUM TO ISSUE GOLD WARRANTS, SOURCES SAY Belgium plans to issue Swiss franc warrants to buy gold, with Credit Suisse as lead manager, market sources said. No confirmation or further details were immediately available.  
label 3	BELGIUM LAUNCHES BONDS WITH GOLD WARRANTS The Kingdom of Belgium is launching 100 mln Swiss francs of seven year notes with warrants attached to buy gold, lead mananger Credit Suisse said. The notes themselves have a 3-3/8 pct coupon and are priced at par. Payment is due April 30, 1987 and final maturity April 30, 1994. Each 50,000 franc note carries 15 warrants. Two warrants are required to allow the holder to buy 100 grammes of gold at a price of 2,450 francs, during the entire life of the bond. The latest gold price in Zurich was 2,045/2,070 francs per 100 grammes.  
label 3	BELGIUM LAUNCHES BONDS WITH GOLD WARRANTS The Kingdom of Belgium is launching 100 mln Swiss francs of seven year notes with warrants attached to buy gold, lead manager Credit Suisse said. The notes themselves have a 3-3/8 pct coupon and are priced at par. Payment is due April 30, 1987, and final maturity April 30, 1994. Each 50,000 franc note carries 15 warrants. Two warrants are required to allow the holder to buy 100 grammes of gold at a price of 2,450 francs, during the entire life of the bond. The latest gold price in Zurich was 2,045/2,070 francs per 100 grammes.  
label 3	GORDEX MINERALS LOCATES GOLD DEPOSITS &lt;Gordex Mineral Ltd> said geologists located more than one mln tons of gold-bearing deposits, 0.057 ounces per ton, at Cape Spencer. The company said it plans to invest 2.5 mln Canadian dlrs to expand on-site treatment facilities to process 100,000 tons of gold-bearing deposits this year and 200,000 tons in 1988. Prior to the completion of the recent exploration program, Gordex estimated the Cape Spencer deposit had 200,000 tons. Gordex said the expansion of the Cape Spencer facilities is intented to enable it to operate 24 hours a day throughout the year.  
label 4	SUMITOMO BANK AIMS AT QUICK RECOVERY FROM MERGER Sumitomo Bank Ltd &lt;SUMI.T> is certain to lose its status as Japan's most profitable bank as a result of its merger with the Heiwa Sogo Bank, financial analysts said. Osaka-based Sumitomo, with desposits of around 23.9 trillion yen, merged with Heiwa Sogo, a small, struggling bank with an estimated 1.29 billion dlrs in unrecoverable loans, in October. But despite the link-up, Sumitomo President Koh Komatsu told Reuters he is confident his bank can quickly regain its position. "We'll be back in position in first place within three years," Komatsu said in an interview. He said that while the merger will initially reduce Sumitomo's profitability and efficiency, it will vastly expand Sumitomo's branch network in the Tokyo metropolitan area where it has been relatively weak. But financial analysts are divided on whether and how quickly the gamble will pay off. Some said Sumitomo may have paid too much for Heiwa Sogo in view of the smaller bank's large debts. Others argue the merger was more cost effective than creating a comparable branch network from scratch. The analysts agreed the bank was aggressive. It has expanded overseas, entered the lucrative securities business and geared up for domestic competition, but they questioned the wisdom of some of those moves. "They've made bold moves to put everything in place. Now it's largely out of their hands," said Kleinwort Benson Ltd financial analyst Simon Smithson. Among Sumitomo's problems are limits placed on its move to enter U.S. Securities business by taking a share in American investment bank Goldman, Sachs and Co. Sumitomo last August agreed to pay 500 mln dlrs for a 12.5 pct limited partnership in the bank, but for the time being at least, the Federal Reserve Board has forbidden them to exchange personnel, or increase the business they do with each other. "The tie-up is widely looked on as a lame duck because the Fed was stricter than Sumitomo expected," said one analyst. But Komatsu said the move will pay off in time. "U.S. Regulations will change in the near future and if so, we can do various things. We only have to wait two or three years, not until the 21st century," Komatsu said. Komatsu is also willing to be patient about possible routes into the securities business at home. Article 65 of the Securities and Exchange Act, Japan's version of the U.S. Glass-Steagall Act, separates commercial from investment banking. But the walls between the two are crumbling and Komatsu said he hopes further deregulation will create new opportunities. "We need to find new business chances," Komatsu said. "In some cases these will be securities related, in some cases trust bank related. That's the kind of deregulation we want." Until such changes occur, Sumitomo will focus on such domestic securities business as profitable government bond dealing and strengthening relations with Meiko Securities Co Ltd, in which it holds a five pct share, Komatsu said. He said Sumitomo is cautiously optimistic about entering the securities business here through its Swiss universal bank subsidiary, Banca del Gottardo. The Finance Ministry is expected to grant licences to securities subsidiaries of U.S. Commercial banks soon, following a similar decision for subsidiaries of European universal banks in which the parent holds a less than 50 pct. But Komatsu is reluctant to push hard for a similar decision on a Gottardo subsidiary. "We don't want to make waves. We expect this will be allowed in two or three years," he said. Like other city banks, Sumitomo is also pushing to expand lending to individuals and small and medium businesses to replace disappearing demand from big business, he added. The analysts said Sumitomo will have to devote a lot of time to digesting its most recent initiatives, including the merger with ailing Heiwa Sogo. "It's (Sumitomo) been bold in its strategies," said Kleinwort's Smithson. "After that, it's a question of absorbing and juggling around. It will be the next decade before we see if the strategy is right or wrong."  
label 4	CRA SOLD FORREST GOLD FOR 76 MLN DLRS - WHIM CREEK &lt;Whim Creek Consolidated NL> said the consortium it is leading will pay 76.55 mln dlrs for the acquisition of CRA Ltd's &lt;CRAA.S> &lt;Forrest Gold Pty Ltd> unit, reported yesterday. CRA and Whim Creek did not disclose the price yesterday. Whim Creek will hold 44 pct of the consortium, while &lt;Austwhim Resources NL> will hold 27 pct and &lt;Croesus Mining NL> 29 pct, it said in a statement. As reported, Forrest Gold owns two mines in Western Australia producing a combined 37,000 ounces of gold a year. It also owns an undeveloped gold project.  
label 4	ANHEUSER-BUSCH JOINS BID FOR SAN MIGUEL Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc &lt;BUD.N> has joined several other foreign bidders for sequestered shares of the Philippines' largest food and beverage maker San Miguel Corp &lt;SANM.MN>, the head of a government panel which controls the shares told Reuters. Ramon Diaz, Secretary of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG), said Anheuser-Busch had told the government it was interested in buying 14 mln "B" shares of San Miguel. He did not disclose the offered price. Diaz said Australian brewer Alan Bond's Bond Corp Holdings Ltd had offered 150 pesos per share for the "B" shares. Diaz said New York investment bank Allen and Co Inc had earlier said it was interested in buying all 38.1 mln sequestered shares. He told Reuters last month Elders IXL Ltd &lt;ELXA.S>, the Melbourne-based brewing company, had also bid for the "B" shares. The Hong Kong Economic Journal last month quoted a spokesman of Australian stock broker Jacksons Ltd as saying that &lt;Barwon Farmlands Ltd>, an Australian firm owned 30 pct by &lt;Ariadne Australia Ltd>, was planning a Filipino branch in order to buy the entire block of 38.1 mln shares. Anheuser-Busch last year made a 150 mln dlr bid to buy &lt;San Miguel Brewery Ltd>, a Hong Kong listed company which is 69.65 pct owned by &lt;Neptunia Corp Ltd>, a San Miguel Corp subsidiary. The talks broke down last June after the two sides said they could not agree on the terms of the sale.  
label 4	MONIER SAYS BRITAIN'S REDLAND MAY BID FOR IT Diversified building materials group Monier Ltd &lt;MNRA.S> said talks are taking place which may lead to Britain's Redland Plc &lt;RDLD.L> making an offer for the Monier shares it does not already hold, chairman Bill Locke said. Redland already holds about 49 pct of Monier's 156.28 mln issued shares, he said in a brief notice to the Australian Stock Exchange. Locke said shareholders would be advised as soon as the discussions progressed and recommended that they keep their shares. Monier shares were trading at a 1987 high of 3.10 dlrs today, up from the previous peak of 2.80 at yesterday's close, and well above the 1987 low of 2.18 dlrs. Monier is the largest concrete roof tile manufacturer in Australia, the U.S. And New Zealand and the world's largest marketer of fly ash, according to its annual report for 1985/86 ended June 30. It recently reported first-half 1986/87 net fell to 15.02 mln dlrs from 17.09 mln a year earlier due to the Australian housing downturn, although foreign earnings rose.  
label 4	BELL GROUP CONFIRMS STANDARD CHARTERED STAKE The Bell Group Ltd &lt;BLLA.S> said it now holds 14.9 pct of the issued capital of Standard Chartered Plc &lt;STCH.L> after acquiring further shares. The one-sentence statement from Bell's headquarters confirmed what its brokers Warburg Securities told Reuters in London yesterday. Bell previously held 10 pct of Standard. Bell chairman Robert Holmes a Court, who is also a director of Standard, was not available for comment on his company's intentions in boosting its holding and other company officials contacted here by Reuters declined to comment.  
label 5	SUBROTO SAYS INDONESIA SUPPORTS TIN PACT EXTENSION Mines and Energy Minister Subroto confirmed Indonesian support for an extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA), but said a new pact was not necessary. Asked by Reuters to clarify his statement on Monday in which he said the pact should be allowed to lapse, Subroto said Indonesia was ready to back extension of the ITA. "We can support extension of the sixth agreement," he said. "But a seventh accord we believe to be unnecessary." The sixth ITA will expire at the end of June unless a two-thirds majority of members vote for an extension.  
label 5	EC MAINLY FOR TIN EXTENSION, NO U.K. STAND TAKEN European Community (EC) members of the International Tin Council, except Britain, have said they are prepared to back an extension of the International Tin Agreement, an EC spokesman said. He said at a meeting of EC states' representatives here yesterday, Britain undertook to communicate its own decision to its partners today. It said it was not ready yesterday to take a stand but did not say why. He added nine other EC states backed an extension. Spain and Portugal, which are not members of the International Tin Council, raised no objections to a common EC stance in favour.  
label 5	PARIS GROUP PUBLISHING DAILY FRANC TIN PRICE The Association of White Metals has decided to publish a daily tin price here in French francs per 100 kilos, the French Federation of Non-Ferrous Metals said. The price, quoted for the first time yesterday, was introduced as the lack of tin quotes was causing problems for some French companies, a spokesman for the non-ferrous metals association said. Today's price was set at 4,776 francs per 100 kilos and Tuesday's at 4,790. The International Chamber of Commerce stopped publishing a tin price after the London Metal Exchange (LME) stopped tin trading on October 24, 1985. The Association has tested the basis it uses to calculate a French franc price over the last few months to ensure it was reliable, the spokesman said. The French franc price is pre-tax, for specified quality, a minimum 99.9 pct purity, at a French port or border railway station and a minimum delivery of 10 tonnes. The French Federation of Non-Ferrous Metals groups various metal associations including the Association of White Metals.  
label 5	TALKS CONTINUE ON TIN AGREEMENT EXTENSION Discussions on the possible extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA) began at the quarterly session of the International Tin Council (ITC) but the Council is still waiting for decisions from various member states. A number of producer governments in particular have not decided their final position on whether the ITA should be extended for up to two years or wound down after it expires on June 30, according to delegate sources. Earlier today European Community (EC) members decided to back an extension, with the exception of Britain, which undertook to communicate its decision to its EC partners later. Delegates said it could be Friday before all the member countries declare their positions on the possible extension. Today's full Council session started shortly before 1500 GMT after the scheduled 1330 start was delayed by an EC coordination meeting. The council reconvenes at 0930 GMT tomorrow, although delegates said the morning is likely to be taken up with minor technical matters and the main issue will probably not be discussed before the afternoon session.  
label 5	SPOT TIN EASIER ON EUROPEAN FREE MARKET Spot tin on the European free market was indicated in the easier range 4,200 to 4,230 stg per tonne, for high grade metal in warehouse Rotterdam, down 20 stg from yesterday's afternoon kerb close. Stability in sterling versus the dollar continued to apply pressure to a market which is coming close to testing a psychological chart support base at 4,200 stg, traders said. Dealers said major consumers still need to cover their May and June requirements but are holding out for even lower offers. Reported high grade tin business in London was confined to end April metal at 4,225 stg. Small-scale spot business was reported by West German operators at 12.60 and 12.63 marks per kilo although the market was still being undercut by Chinese material, which traded at one stage down to 12.54 marks per kilo, traders said.  
label 6	CHINA INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES IN FIRST QUARTER China's industrial output rose 14.1 pct in the first quarter of 1987 against the same 1986 period, the People's Daily said. Its overseas edition said the growth rate, which compares with a target of seven pct for the whole of 1987, was "rather high" but the base in the first quarter of 1986 was on the low side. Industrial output grew 4.4 pct in the first quarter of 1986. It said China's industrial production this year has been normal but product quality and efficiency need further improvement. It gave no further details.  
label 6	SWEDISH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES SHARPLY Swedish industrial production rose 2.6 pct in February, after a 1.8 pct fall in January, showing a 4.4 pct rise over February 1986 and reaching its highest level ever, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. The rise reflected recovery in almost all sectors after an exceptionally cold spell in January, the Bureau said, adding that the highest rises were seen in the forest, chemical and metal industries.  
label 6	FRENCH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN FEBRUARY French industrial production rose a seasonally adjusted three pct in February after an unrevised 1.98 pct fall in January, the National Statistics Institute (INSEE) said. The figure, which excludes construction and public works, put the February index, base 1980, at 102 after 99 in January. INSEE changed its base year to 1980 from 1970 last month.  
label 6	BANK OF FRANCE SEES PICKUP IN INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY The Bank of France said in its latest monthly report on the French economy it expected a pickup in industrial production registered in March to gather steam over the next few months. Without giving figures, the report said last month's rise, partly linked to efforts to catch up with production lost earlier this year through industrial action, was due mainly to a firming of domestic demand. "New progress is expected in all main sectors except capital goods where production will remain at its present level," the report added. The upbeat report comes in the wake of grim March trade balance figures which showed a deficit in industrial trade for the first time since June 1982. While the automobile industry remained unchanged from previously boosted levels, consumer goods production grew and was expected to accelerate except in the area of domestic appliances. Semi-finished goods showed a clear increase in all sectors. Construction and civil engineering, boosted by a rise in public works, also improved, while retail trade sales in all sectors continued to slow.  
label 6	SOVIET INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT UP IN FIRST QUARTER Soviet industrial output in the first quarter of this year grew by 2.5 pct compared with the first three months of 1986, Tass news agency reported. A regular meeting of the Politburo heard that in March, industry achieved the average daily rate needed to fulfil annual targets. Quarterly plans were exceeded in the fuel and power sector and agriculture, where output grew by 8.7 pct compared with the same period last year, it said. Plans were not fulfilled by the engineering and building ministries, the chemical and timber sectors, rail transport and light industry, it added.  
label 7	AMATIL PROPOSES TWO-FOR-FIVE BONUS SHARE ISSUE Amatil Ltd &lt;AMAA.S> said it proposes to make a two-for-five bonus issue out of its revaluation reserve to shareholders registered May 26. Shareholders will be asked to approve the issue and an increase in authorised capital to 175 mln shares from 125 mln at a general meeting on May 1, it said in a statement. The new shares will rank for dividends declared after October 31. Amatil, in which B.A.T. Industries Plc &lt;BTI.L> holds a 41 pct stake, said it does not expect to maintain its latest annual dividend rate of 29 cents a share on the enlarged capital.  
label 7	BOWATER 1986 PRETAX PROFITS RISE 15.6 MLN STG Shr 27.7p vs 20.7p Div 6.0p vs 5.5p making 10.0p vs 9.25p Turnover 1.34 billion stg vs 1.29 billion Pretax profit 48.0 mln vs 32.4 mln Tax 14.4 mln vs 6.9 mln Company name is Bowater Industries Plc &lt;BWTR.L> Trading profit 63.4 mln vs 45.1 mln Trading profit includes - Packaging and associated products 23.2 mln vs 14.2 mln Merchanting and services 18.4 mln vs 9.6 mln Tissue and timber products 9.0 mln vs 5.8 mln Interest debit 15.4 mln vs 12.7 mln Minority interests 7.0 mln debit vs 6.2 mln debit Extraordinary items 15.4 mln credit vs 11.9 mln debit  
label 7	BOWATER INDUSTRIES PROFIT EXCEED EXPECTATIONS Bowater Industries Plc &lt;BWTR.L> 1986 pretax profits of 48.0 mln stg exceeded market expectations of around 40 mln and pushed the company's shares up sharply to a high of 491p from 468p last night, dealers said. The shares later eased back to 481p. Bowater reported a 32.4 mln stg profit in 1985. The company said in a statement accompanying the results that the underlying trend showed improvement and it intended to expand further by developing existing businesses and seeking new opportunities. It added that it had appointed David Lyon, currently managing director of Redland Plc &lt;RDLD.L> as its new chief executive. Analysts noted that Bowater's profits of 18.9 mln stg from 13.2 mln previously had been given a boost by pension benefits of 4.5 mln stg. Profit from Australia and the Far East showed the greatest percentage rise, jumping 55.0 pct to 15.5 mln from 10.0 mln, while the profit from U.K. Operations rose 30.7 pct to 24.7 mln, and Europe, 42.9 pct to 11.0 mln.  
label 7	CITIBANK NORWAY UNIT LOSES SIX MLN CROWNS IN 1986 Citibank A/S &lt;CCI.N>, the Norwegian subsidiary of the U.S.-based bank, said it made a net loss of just over six mln crowns in 1986 -- although foreign bankers said they expect it to show 1987 profits after two lean years. Citibank's Oslo treasury head Bjoern Sejerstad told Reuters, Citibank, one of seven foreign bank subsidiaries operating in Norway, lost money because of restructuring for investment banking away from commercial banking and an economic slump in Norway following last year's plunge in oil prices. Foreign banks have been allowed to operate susbidiaries in Norway since 1985. Foreign banking analysts in Oslo said access to Norway's second-hand securities and equities markets, to be approved later this spring, and lower primary reserve requirements would make profit this year. Citibank lost 490,000 crowns in Norway in 1985, but Sejerstad said a profit was likely this year because of planned liberalisation and better economic performance, helped by a steadier oil price of around 18 dlrs a barrel. Earlier this year, Chase Manhattan Bank's &lt;CMB.N> subsidiary decided to stop foreign exchange trading after heavy losses and focus instead on fee-based merchant banking.  
label 7	VIEILLE MONTAGNE SAYS 1986 CONDITIONS UNFAVOURABLE A sharp fall in the dollar price of zinc and the depreciation of the U.S. Currency created unfavourable economic conditions for Vieille Montagne SA &lt;VMNB.BR> in 1986. It said in a statement that the two factors led to a squeeze on refining margins and an 18.24 pct fall in sales and services income despite an unchanged level of activity. Vieille Montagne, which is actively pursuing a restructuring program, reported a 198 mln franc net loss, after 187 mln francs in provisions for the closure of an electrolysis plant, compared with a 250 mln franc net profit in 1985.  
