fluid_mechanics	solutions are presented for both laminar developing flow in a curved pipe with a parabolic inlet velocity and laminar transitional flow downstream of a curved pipe into a straight outlet. scalings and linearized analyses about appropriate base states are used to show that both cases obey the same governing equations and boundary conditions. in particular, the governing equations in the two cases are linearized about fully developed poiseuille flow in cylindrical coordinates and about dean 's velocity profile for curved pipe flow in toroidal coordinates respectively. subsequently, we identify appropriate scalings of the axial coordinate and disturbance velocities that eliminate dependence on the reynolds number re and dimensionless pipe curvature alpha from the governing equations and boundary conditions in the limit of small alpha and large re. direct numerical simulations confirm the scaling arguments and theoretical solutions for a range of re and alpha. maximum values of the axial velocity, secondary velocity and pressure perturbations are determined along the curved pipe section. results collapse when the scalings are applied, and the theoretical solutions are shown to be valid up to dean numbers of d = re-2 alpha = o(100). the developing flows are shown numerically and analytically to contain spatial oscillations. the numerically determined decay of the velocity perturbations is also used to determine entrance/development lengths for both flows, which are shown to scale linearly with the reynolds number, but with a prefactor similar to 60% larger than the textbook case of developing flow in a straight pipe.
fluid_mechanics	there are 0.6-1.9% of us children who were born with congenital heart malformations. clinical and animal studies suggest that abnormal blood flow forces might play a role in causing these malformation, highlighting the importance of understanding the fetal cardiovascular fluid mechanics. we performed computational fluid dynamics simulations of the right ventricles, based on four-dimensional ultrasound scans of three 20-wk-old normal human fetuses, to characterize their flow and energy dynamics. peak intraventricular pressure gradients were found to be 0.2-0.9 mmhg during systole, and 0.1-0.2 mmhg during diastole. diastolic wall shear stresses were found to be around 1 pa, which could elevate to 2-4 pa during systole in the outflow tract. fetal right ventricles have complex flow patterns featuring two interacting diastolic vortex rings, formed during diastolic e wave and a wave. these rings persisted through the end of systole and elevated wall shear stresses in their proximity. they were observed to conserve similar to 25.0% of peak diastolic kinetic energy to be carried over into the subsequent systole. however, this carried-over kinetic energy did not significantly alter the work done by the heart for ejection. thus, while diastolic vortexes played a significant role in determining spatial patterns and magnitudes of diastolic wall shear stresses, they did not have significant influence on systolic ejection. our results can serve as a baseline for future comparison with diseased hearts.
fluid_mechanics	even if the variation of nusselt number with reynolds number has been observed before, little to no studies are concerning nanofluids. the present numerical data in the laminar regime were also found to correlate well with the brinkman number for the individual sets and much better globally, by combining all the data sets for nanofluids and water. thus, this work proposes a new correlation between heat transfer rate and brinkman number which is a nondimensional number of viscosity, flow velocity and temperature. the results showed a good empirical equation that nul(re-0.62 pr-0.33) is dependent on a power law function to the brinkman number in laminar flow regime. the proposed correlation can be applied both to water and nanofluid flow, with respect to the nanoparticle loading. it is expected that the equation suggested by this work can be useful to design heating/cooling devices. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
fluid_mechanics	this research focuses on using analytical fluid mechanics to determine whether or not a mitral regurgitation (mr) patient 's echocardiogram reading can be trusted, to assess the severity of his mitral regurgitation (mr). mr occurs when the mitral valve inlet, separating the left atrium and the left ventricle does not fully close during ventricular systole, allowing regurgitant blood to flow backwards from the left ventricle into the left atrium. for clinicians, knowing the severity of this hack-flow is important in preventing eventual heart failure. the coanda effect phenomenon in a particular patient is believed to cause discrepancies in echocardiogram results, leading clinicians to sometimes incorrectly diagnose a patient 's mr severity. we propose to generate a tool for reading undebatable solid geometries in an echocardiogram and using these to judge the prevalence of wall effect to distort a fluid jet being read. using control volume analysis for a regurgitant jet in the mitral valve, an analytical solution for the expected flow profile, based on wall effects around the regurgitant jet is derived. using a turbulent 3d ansys model, detailed velocity and momentum mappings of the blood flowing backwards from the mitral valve into the left atrium are obtained. we believe these are first steps towards understanding wall effects in mr and determining the level of trustworthiness of any echocardiogram reading of mr severity.
fluid_mechanics	a combined experimental and computational study of the transfer of transparent index-matched silica-particle inks between two flat plates is presented for gravure printing applications. the influence of printing speed and initial ink droplet size on the ability to accurately transfer ink during the printing process is explored systematically. smooth interface volume of fluid simulations show the same trends as the ink transfer observed in experiments over a wide range of printing speeds and for inks having different silica particle loadings. our calculations indicate that for ink droplets with characteristic dimensions in the vicinity of 10 mu m, which are of particular interest for gravure printing applications, ink transfer improves significantly due to the diminishing effect of gravity, and the increased importance of capillary forces at small length scales. vc 2016 american institute of chemical engineers aiche j, 63: 1419-1429, 2017
hydraulics	stream restoration efforts in the united states are increasingly aimed towards water quality improvement, yet little process-based guidance exists to compare pollutant removals from different restoration techniques for variable site conditions. excess nitrate (no3-) is a frequent pollutant of concern due to eutrophication in downstream waterbodies such as the chesapeake bay. we used mike she to simulate hydraulics and no3- removal in a 90 m restored reach of stroubles creek, a second-order stream in blacks-burg, virginia. site specific geomorphic, hydrologic, and hydraulic data were used to calibrate the model. we evaluated in-stream structures that induce hyporheic zone denitrification during baseflow and inset floodplains that remove no3- during storm flows. we varied hydraulic conditions (winter baseflow, summer baseflow, storm flow), biogeochemical parameters (literature hyporheic zone denitrification rates and newly available inset floodplain removal rates) and boundary conditions (upstream no3- concentration), sediment conditions (hydraulic conductivity), and stream restoration design parameters (inset floodplain length). our results indicate that no3- removal rates within the 90m reach were minimal. structure-induced hyporheic zone denitrification did not exceed 3.1% of mass flowing in from the upstream channel, was achieved only during favorable background groundwater hydraulic conditions (i.e. summer baseflow), and was transport-limited such that non-trivial removal rates were achieved only when the streambed hydraulic conductivity (k) was at least 10(-4) m/s. inset floodplain nitrogen removal was limited by floodplain residence time and no3- removal rate, and did not exceed 1% of inflowing mass. summing these removals for both restoration practices over the course of the year based on the frequency of storm and summer baseflow conditions yielded similar to 2.1% annual removal. achieving 30% no3- removal required increasing the length of stream reach restored to 0.9 km-819 km (depending on hydraulic conductivity) and 3.8-46 km (depending on inset floodplain length and nitrogen removal rate) for in-stream structures during baseflow and inset floodplains during storm flow, respectively. in one of the first comparisons of process-based modeling to the chesapeake bay program stream restoration guidance, we found that the guidance overestimated hyporheic no3- removal for our modeled reach, but correctly estimated inset floodplain removal. overall, our results indicate that in-stream structures and inset floodplains can improve water quality, but overall required level of effort may be high to achieve desired results. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
hydraulics	gully erosion represents one of the most significant types of land degradation in the mediterranean areas, giving place to important on- and off-site effects. in this paper, a second-order gully located in sw spain is analyzed. along the gully, 28 cross-sections were established and measured with a leica tcrm1102 laser total station, approximately every 6 months from 2001 to 2007. the sections were located at variable distance, placing them in areas where active erosion was evident. in total, 13 field measurements were carried out, and the geometric characteristics of 28 cross-sections were obtained. morphometric analyses were carried out in both the main gully and a tributary reach by applying an empirical relationship between channel length and eroded volume. morphometric variables of the gully sections were combined into two dimensionless groups, and a morphological similarity between different linear erosion land forms (rills, ephemeral and permanent gullies) was obtained. then, the coefficient of variation of the calculated volumes was used to compare the instability between the main gully and the tributary reach. finally, the hydraulic geometry of the gully was assessed by calibrating three empirical power equations, which relate bankfull discharge with mean flow velocity, cross-sectional depth and width. the hydraulic characterization of the main gully and the tributary reach was investigated for each field survey and a different behavior was detected. the hydraulic analysis also demonstrated that higher values of discharge provide better predictions of flow velocity; the size of the main and tributary gullies affects the discharge-width relationship; and that gully depth is the variable which can be predicted with the highest accuracy. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
hydraulics	as one of the candidate tritium breeding blankets for chinese fusion engineering test reactor (cfetr), a conceptual structure of the helium cooled solid breeder blanket has recently been proposed. the neutronic, thermal-hydraulic and mechanical characteristics of the blanket directly affect its tritium breeding and safety performance. therefore, neutronic/thermal-hydraulic/mechanical coupling analyses are of vital importance for a reliable blanket design. in this work, first, three-dimensional neutronics analysis and optimization of the typical outboard equatorial blanket module (no. 12) were performed for the comprehensive optimal scheme. then, thermal and fluid dynamic analyses of the scheme under both normal and critical conditions were performed and coupled with the previous neutronic calculation results. with thermal-hydraulic boundaries, thermo-mechanical analyses of the structure materials under normal, critical and blanket over-pressurization conditions were carried out. in addition, several parametric sensitivity studies were also conducted to investigate the influences of the main parameters on the blanket temperature distributions. in this paper, the coupled analyses verify the reasonability of the optimized conceptual design preliminarily and can provide an important reference for the further analysis and optimization design of the cfetr helium cooled solid breeder blanket. (c)cfetr 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
hydraulics	the two-stage core analysis method is widely used for bwr core analysis. the purpose of this study is to develop a core analysis model coupled with subchannel analysis within the two-stage calculation scheme using an assembly-based thermal-hydraulics calculation in the core analysis. the model changes the 2d lattice physics scheme, and couples with 3d subchahnel analysis which evaluates the thermal-hydraulics characteristics within the coolant flow area divided as some subchannel regions. in order to couple with these two analyses, some bwr fuel assembly parameters are assumed and verified. the developed model is evaluated for the heterogeneous problem with and without a control rod. the present model is especially effective for the control rod inserted condition. the present model can incorporate the subchannel effect into the current two-stage core calculation method. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
hydraulics	natural streams are characterized by variation in cross-section geometry, bed-slope, bed roughness, hydraulic slope, etc., along their channels resulting from several interacting features of the riverine system including the effects of discharge changes, geologic context, sediment load, etc. quantitative and qualitative assessment of river flow dynamics requires sufficient knowledge of hydraulics and these geophysical variables. average flow condition theory expressed as ""at-a-station"" hydraulic geometry (ahg) relations are site-specific power-functions, relating the mean stream channel forms (i.e. water depth, top width, flow velocity, and flow area) to discharge, have been studied since 50s. establishing robust ahg relations requires pre-assessment of data quality by means of uncertainty analysis. our paper introduces a recursive data filtering procedure to find both random and systematic errors in streamflow and river survey data that can be used to produce robust and informative ahg relations. the method is first verified on synthetic data and then by experiments over: (1) real discharge-stage ratings provided by daily streamflow records of u.s. geological survey/national water information system dataset (usgs/nwis), and (2) field river survey measurement data from usgs/nwis. this produces robust ahg relations at 4472 monitoring stations across the u.s. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
computer-aided_design	we used additive manufacturing (3d printing) to create ordered porous beds from a range of geometric shapes, including truncated icosahedra (approximating spheres), tetrahedral, octahedral, triangular bipyramid, and stellar octangular particles. we show that the printed porous media were highly reproducible and had excellent fidelity in physically reproducing computer-aided design models, with differences between designed and experimentally measured particle locations within +/- 0.5%, and within 13% in terms of bed porosity. experimental residence time distributions were measured and the reduced plate height, h, was determined under different reduced velocities (peclet number, pe = 4-400). the results (using equivalent particle diameter to non-dimensionalize) show that, for the simple cubic (sc) arrangement, tetrahedral particles had a lower plate height (h(min) = 1.56) than all other particle shapes tested, including spherical particles. we also, for the first time, experimentally validated computational predictions of the performance of sc, body centered cubic (bcc) and face centered cubic (fcc) arrangements of spheres, confirming that fcc is indeed superior (h(min), = 1.12) to sc (h(min) = 1.62). we conclude that the capability offered by additive manufacturing in controlling not only packing configuration but also shape, position and orientation of the geometric elements within the porous bed may, in the future, play a fundamental role in the design of highly efficient 3d-printed columns. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
computer-aided_design	surface passivation is an essential step for atomistic simulations. there can be many possible surface passivation results for a given device model, such as semiconductor devices that consist of si, gaas, or other materials because the bonding directions of the surface atoms may not be unique. based on the structure analysis of the given model, a generation method with structure descriptor (sdg) is proposed for surface passivation. compared with other existing solutions, the sdg method not only provides trimmer results, but also reduces the torsion angle energy of the model, which is preferred in the simulation of atomistic models. the efficiency of this method was validated through test results from several applications.
computer-aided_design	blackspot is a subsurface potato damage resulting from impacts during harvesting. this type of bruising represents substantial economic losses every year. as the tubers do not show external symptoms, bruise detection in potatoes is not straightforward. therefore, a nondestructive and accurate method capable of identifying bruised tubers is needed. hyperspectral imaging (hsi) has been shown to be able to detect other subsurface defects such as bruises in apples. this method is nondestructive, fast and can be fully automated. therefore, its potential for non-destructive detection of blackspot in potatoes has been investigated in this study. two hsi setups were used, one ranging from 400 to 1000 nm, named visible near infrared (vis-nir) and another covering the 1000-2500 nm range, called short wave infrared (swir). 188 samples belonging to 3 different varieties were divided in two groups. bruises were manually induced and samples were analyzed 1, 5, 9 and 24 h after bruising. pca, simca and pls-da were used to build classifiers. the pls-da model performed better than simca, achieving an overall correct classification rate above 94% for both hyperspectral setups. furthermore, more accurate results were obtained with the swir setup at the tuber level (98.56 vs. 95.46% cc), allowing the identification of early bruises within 5 h after bruising. moreover, the pixel based pls-da model achieved better results in the swir setup in terms of correctly classified samples (93.71 vs. 90.82% cc) suggesting that it is possible to detect blackspot areas in each potato tuber with high accuracy. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
computer-aided_design	low-power is one of the key driving forces in modern very large scale integration systems. recent studies show that 3-d integrated circuits (ics) offer a significant power saving over 2-d ics. however, these studies are mainly limited to two-tier (2-tier) designs. thus, in this paper, we extend our target to three-tier (3-tier) 3-d ics. this paper first shows that the one additional tier available in 3-tier 3-d ics does offer more power saving compared with their 2-tier 3-d ic counterparts, but more careful floorplanning, through-silicon via management, and block folding considerations are required. second, we find that the 3-tiers can be bonded in several different ways: 1) face-to-back only; 2) face-to-face and face-to-back combined; and 3) back-to-back and face-to-face combined. this paper shows that these choices pose additional challenges in design optimizations for more power saving. lastly, we develop effective computer-aided-design solutions that are seamlessly integrated into commercial 2-d ic tools to handle 3-tier 3-d ic power optimization under various bonding style options. with our low-power design methods combined, our 3-tier 3-d ics provide -14.8% more power reduction over 2-tier 3-d ics, and -36.0% over 2-d ics in microprocessor cores under the same performance. in full-chip microprocessors, our 3-tier 3-d ics provide -27.2% more power reduction over 2-d ics.
computer-aided_design	all-spin logic (asl) devices provide a promising spintronics-based alternative for boolean logic implementations in the post-complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (cmos) era. in principle, any logic functionality can be implemented in asl. in practice, the performance of an asl gate is significantly affected by layout choices, but such implications have not been adequately explored in the past. this article proposes a systematic approach for building standard cells in asl, which are a basic building block in an overall design methodology for implementing large asl-based circuits. we first propose a new technique to reduce the magnet count for an asl majority gate but still ensure correct functioning through layout optimization methods. building on physics-based analysis, we then build a standard cell library with diverse functionality and characterize the library for delay, energy, and area. we perform delay-optimized technology mapping on iscas85 benchmark circuits using our library. our approach results in circuits that are 12.90% faster, consume 26.16% less energy, and are 33.56% more area efficient compared to a standard cell library that does not incorporate layout-based optimization techniques of our work.
manufacturing_engineering	this paper presents a neural network-based vision inspection system interfaced with a robot to detect and report ic lead defects on-line. the vision system consists of custom software that contains a neural network database for each of the ics to be inspected on a pcb. the vision system uses gray scale images and a single layer neural network with three outputs based on defect criteria. each ic has a different inspection area, thus, the input vector varies for each of the ics. the ic networks were trained with matlab 's bayesian regularization module. performance of each of the networks investigated was found to be 100%, based on the defect criteria. this system has been implemented and tested on several electronic products using proe, c++ and opengl software platforms [r. balderas, s. bose, automated robotic inspection system for electronic manufacturing, mse thesis, manufacturing engineering department, ut-pan american, 2002; a.i. edinbarough. j. amieva, experimental study on the robotics vision inspection of electronic components, bs thesis, engineering technology department, ut-brownsville, 2002]. (c) 2005 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
manufacturing_engineering	project based learning techniques have given rise to other learning techniques as research works based learning (rwbl). this technique is especially interested in the teching-learning process of materials processing technologies related disciplines. this work reports on the results of the application of rwbl techniques in a subject of the cadiz university 's master in manufacturing engineering: engineering of non-conventional materials removing processes. proposed research works have been designed on the basis of a classic research paper structure: introduction, state of the art, experimental procedure, results, discussion and conclusions. these proposed works were focused on a comparative analysis of different machining processes, mainly, electro-discharge machining, abrasive waterjet machining and high speed machining. this experience can be considered highly successful because the 100% of the students reached the learning objectives of the subject.
manufacturing_engineering	tests of physical vapour deposition (pvd) coatings performed in the past at nasa glenn research center (grc) in real fluid film bearing environment revealed inconsistencies in coating behaviour. currently, a new lot of bearings with an improved diamond-like carbon (dlc) coating was tested. the oil-off tests revealed an improved coating performance for the new bearing lot than for previously-examined cases. in order to check the consistency in coating performance, bearings from the new lot ran 100 cumulative hours without oil-supply. coating analyses before and after the tests in real fluid film bearing environment were performed at nasa grc. investigations were additionally conducted by means of an innovative indentation technique and related finite element method simulations on the coatings of 2 of the bearings, one already tested in real-environment conditions and the other one new, at the laboratory for machine tools and manufacturing engineering of the aristotle university of thessaloniki, greece.
manufacturing_engineering	cutting movements in football (soccer) induce high loads on the anterior cruciate ligament in the knee. the injury risk is affected by the shoe-surface interaction. for the evaluation of different influencing factors of this interaction the traktester, a custom-made device, was used. to obtain significant results from testing acl loading a realistic plantar pressure distribution in the shoe is required. using the traktester several cutting movements were carried out using two different foot models with the resultant plantar pressure analysed with three different systems: the original foot model with parotec insoles (24 integrated sensors; paromed gmbh, markt neubeuern, germany), the modified version of this foot model with pedar-x insoles (99 sensors; novel gmbh, munich, germany) and the inflexible model was surveyed with the opengo science system (13 sensors, moticon, munich, germany). for the inflexible model distinct angles between the lower leg and the surface were adjusted and the obtained plantar pressure distributions were analyzed. as the first version showed high pressures in the arch region, it was modified to reduce the load in this area. a second inflexible model induced the pressure in the heel and forefoot region. for various angles similar plantar pressure distributions were obtained. highest pressures were applied on the medial side of the heel and forefoot with minor load in the arch region. this corresponds to literature data investigating cutting movements with subjects. tests with the inflexible foot model achieved similar and realistic patterns of the plantar pressure distribution for different angles. this is an important precondition to obtain reproducible data for acl loading during cutting movements. (c) 2013 the authors. published by elsevier ltd. selection and peer-review under responsibility of the school of aerospace, mechanical and manufacturing engineering, rmit university
manufacturing_engineering	the compliance of increasing requirements on the final product often constitutes a challenge in manufacturing of metal parts. the common problem represents the precise reproduction of geometrical form. the reasons for form deviation can be e. g. varying properties of the semi-finished product as well as wear of the punch-bending machine or the punch-bending tool themself. usually the process parameters are manually adjusted on the introduction of new production scenario or after the deviation between the actual form of produced pieces and the designed form become clear. the choice of new process parameters is normally based on the experience of the machine operators. it leads to a time-consuming and expensive procedure right on the early stages of production scenarios as well as during the established production process. furthermore, the trend of miniaturization of part sizes along with narrowing tolerances and increase in the strengths of materials drastically pushes up the requirements on the production process. aiming at reduction of scrap rate and setup-time of production scenarios, a model-based approach is chosen to design a self-correcting control strategy. the strategy is designed by modeling the bending process. in the first step the bending process has to be analyzed on the model by varying of process variables influencing the process significantly. it is done by corresponding simulations. after that, the correlations between significant variables and geometrical deviation were defined and different self-correcting control strategies were designed and tested. in order to identify and validate the simulation and to test the quality of the self-correcting control strategies, a special experimental tool was built up. the experimental tool is equipped with an additional measurement device and can be operated on a universal testing machine. finally, the self-correcting control strategies were tested under real production conditions on the original tool in order to address further influences of the punch-bending machine on the manufacturing process.
machine_design	the complexity of products is increasing as more and more functions and structures are included in them, leading to higher requirements on better understand of users' behaviour in term of using the product during the early engineering design phase. although, industry and academia agree that human aspects are important for the success of the product, there are few methods that support the designers concerning these factors during the synthesis of the design process. the article describes a behaviour design approach (bda) to be used by industrial engineers, designers and ergonomists for ergonomic analysis and evaluation in product or machine design. this approach has been developed for both expert and non-expert practitioners, who can integrate user behaviour and product behaviour during the design phase for improving product performance.
machine_design	the integrated starter generator replaces the conventional starter and alternator with one electrical machine handling both functions. start/stop functionality, vehicle launch assistance, and higher speed transient power supplementing enhance the vehicle performance at the lower fuel consumption rate. this functionality requires the electrical machine to provide high starting and launch assistant torque in motoring mode and relatively high power capability over the wide speed range for battery charging. the overall cost of the system is the underlining concern and crucial part of the design optimization. this paper focuses on advantages of induction machines (ims) in automotive industry and an approach to design a cost-effective electrical machine for belted starter-alternator applications. design optimization of the im is described to achieve desired performance, including rotor bar count, solid conductor (bar winding) versus stranded winding design, rotor bar shape optimization, and finally performance maps for the electrical machine, including both predicted and measured results. a thermal study of the machine is also presented, as well as the noise, vibration, and harshness (nvh) consideration in the design selection.
machine_design	a mesh-based magnetic equivalent circuit has been derived to model the dynamics of wound rotor synchronous machines (wrsms). a particular focus has been placed on the derivation of flux tubes to model machines with an arbitrary number of damper bars placed at an arbitrary depth in the rotor pole tip. faraday 's law is applied to establish a state model in which winding and damper bar flux linkages are selected as state variables. the resulting coupled magnetic equivalent circuit/state model is solved to predict machine dynamics. an important attribute of the model is that saturation is represented without the need for a relaxation factor, which enables its use as a practical tool in machine design. data obtained from hardware experiment and a finite-element model are used to validate the proposed methods.
machine_design	this paper proposes an axial-flux-modulation permanent magnet (pm) machine and its sensorless control strategy for in-wheel application in electrical vehicles. a vernier structure is integrated with the axial-flux pm machine to include the magnetic gear effect and improve output torque. the sensorless control strategy of the proposed machine, including initial rotor position estimation and rotating position estimation, is proposed for flux-modulation motors in this paper. the initial rotor position estimation is based on the technique of rectangular pulse voltage injection and the rotating rotor position estimation is based on the sliding mode observer (smo). the saturation effect on inductances, which is the theoretical basis of the rectangular pulse voltage injection, makes the stator parameter variation in different loads and affects the smo estimation. to overcome this problem, a novel online parameter self-adjustment procedure for the smois introduced. the machine design and its sensorless control performance are verified by simulation and prototype experiments.
machine_design	purpose - the purpose of this paper is to introduce a new design optimization technique for a surface mounted permanent magnet (smpm) machine to increase sensorless performance at high loadings by compromising with torque capability. design/methodology/approach - an smpm parametric machine model was created and analysed by finite element analysis (fea) software by means of the matlab environment. eight geometric parameters of the machine were optimized using genetic algorithms (gas). the outer volume of the machine, namely copper loss per volume, was kept constant. in order to prevent sensorless performance loss at high loading, an optimization process was realized using two loading stages: maximum torque with minimum ripple at nominal load and maximum self-sensing capability at twice load. in order to show the effectiveness of the proposed technique, the obtained results were compared with the classical one-stage optimization realized for each loading condition separately. findings - with the proposed technique, fairly good performance results of the optimization were obtained when compared with the one-stage optimizations. using the proposed technique, sensorless performance of the motor was highly increased by compromising torque capability for high loading. additionally, this paper shows that the self-sensing properties of a smpm machine should be considered at the design stage of the machine. originality/value - in related literature, design optimization studies for the sensorless capability of smpm motor are very few. by increasing optimization performance, new proposed technique provides to achieve good result at high load for sensorless performance compromising torque capability.
thermodynamics	we compare the extent to which the properties of simple liquids are pertinent to short to moderate chain n-alkanes ranging from ethane (c-2) to dodecane (c-12). explicit geometric features such as bonds, angles and dihedral potentials in currently available models of n-alkanes make these systems more realistic, and distinct from the generalized lennard-jones chain fluids. our study confirms that the presence of these flexible geometric constraints completely suppresses the energy-virial correlation in these systems. however, they are found to have a strong energy-virial correlation in high density region of their phase diagram when the contribution from these geometric constraints are excluded. for fluids having simple liquid like behavior, semi-quantitative relationships between structure, dynamics, and thermodynamics are well established. range of state points is explored to test the applicability of such relationships for n-alkanes. considering the collection of monomer beads as the reference state, thermodynamic and structural entropic measures are systematically compared with and without intramolecular contributions. we show that the pair entropy computed with explicit intramolecular geometric constraints correlates well with thermodynamic excess entropy. both the thermodynamic and pair entropy have strong isochore dependence with reduced diffusivity. intermolecular pair entropy correlates well with reduced diffusivity. the role of multiparticle correlations is highlighted for predicting thermodynamic and transport properties in these chain systems. triplet correlations in addition to pair correlations are used as an attempt to improve the structural contribution to excess entropy. we show that if the three particle contribution is included in the computation of structural entropy, the resulting value overestimates the excess entropy. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
thermodynamics	for many years, the traditional process of gardenia yellow pigment extraction has produced wastewater containing significant quantities of geniposidic acid (gsa), a substance that could be put to pharmacological uses if it could be effectively recovered. this study aimed to provide an efficient adsorption material, d08, for recycling gsa. batch experiments showed that adsorption capacity depends on initial concentration and temperature. the maximal adsorption capacity of gsa onto an anionic exchanger reached 310 mg/g. the pk(a) value of gsa was determined to be 4.21. pore diffusion coefficients (d-p) of gsa for 283, 298 and 313 k were 3.274 x 10(-10), 5.069 x 10(-10) and 7.356 x 10(-10) m(2)/s, respectively. recovery efficiency of gsa was achieved to 99.81 %. in comparison with pseudo first-order and pseudo second-order equations, the pdm model demonstrated the best fit to the kinetics data of gsa adsorption. adsorption/desorption experiments proved that d08 offers great adsorption capacity, high adsorption rate and good repeatability. in order to help us to accurately comprehend the mass transfer process, numerical simulation and post-processing to variables c(r, t) and q(r, t) were performed to clarify the adsorption process.
thermodynamics	we show how statistical thermodynamics can be formulated in situations of metaequilibrium or metastability (as in the cases of supercooled liquids or of glasses respectively). by analogy with phenomenological thermodynamics, the primary quantities considered are the heat q absorbed and the work w performed by the system of interest. these are defined through the energy exchanges which occur when the system is put in contact with a thermostat and with a barostat, the whole system being dealt with as a global hamiltonian dynamical system. the coefficients of the fundamental form turn out to have such expressions that the closure of the form is manifest: this gives the first principle. a further step is performed by making use of time reversibility. this provides new expressions for the coefficients, such that the second principle in the form of clausius is also manifest. such coefficients are expressed in terms of time-autocorrelations of suitable dynamical variables, in a way analogous to that of fluctuation dissipation theory for equilibrium states. all these results are independent of the ergodicity properties of the global dynamical system.
thermodynamics	we present a thorough characterization of fragmentations observed in threshold collision-induced dissociation (tcid) experiments of protonated triglycine (h(+)ggg) with xe using a guided ion beam tandem mass spectrometer (gibms). kinetic energy-dependent cross-sections for 10 ionic products are observed and analyzed to provide 0 k barriers for six primary products: [b(2)](+), [y(1) + 2h](+), [b(3)](+), co loss, [y(2) + 2h](+), and [a(1)](+); three secondary products: [a(2)](+), [a(3)](+), and [y(2) + 2h - co](+); and two tertiary products: high energy [y(1) + 2h](+) and [a(2) - co](+) after accounting for multiple ion-molecule collisions, internal energy of reactant ions, unimolecular decay rates, competition between channels, and sequential dissociations. relaxed potential energy surface scans performed at the b3lyp-d3/6-311+g(d,p) level of theory are used to identify transition states (tss) and intermediates of the six primary and one secondary products. geometry optimizations and single point energy calculations were performed at several levels of theory. these theoretical energies are compared with experimental energies and are found to give reasonably good agreement, in particular for the m06-2x level of theory. this good agreement between experiment and theory validates the reaction mechanisms explored computationally here and elsewhere and allows identification of the product structures formed at threshold energies. the present work presents the first measurement of absolute experimental threshold energies of important sequence ions and non-sequence ions: [y(1) + 2h](+), [b(3)](+), co loss, [a(1)](+), and [a(3)](+), and refines those for [b(2)](+) and [y(2) + 2h](+) previously measured.
thermodynamics	taking into account the perturbative corrections of einstein (en)-maxwell gravity, we study thermodynamical behavior of the black holes in the context of geometrical thermodynamics (gt). we consider a quadratic maxwell invariant as a correction of maxwell theory in electromagnetic viewpoint and gauss-bonnet (gb) gravity as a correction of en theory in gravitational point of view. we study thermodynamical phase transition and show that employing weinhold, ruppeiner and quevedo approaches fails to produce desirable results. next, hendi-panahiyan-eslam panah-momennia (hpem) metric will be employed in order to study gt of the solutions. we show that this metric is capable of matching all the divergence points of its thermodynamical curvature scalar with phase transition and bound points. moreover, the effects of the variation of different parameters on phase transition points will be investigated.
materials_engineering	the paper refers to the approach used in science, specifically in building materials engineering, assuming the possibility of material modeling, including modeling of the technical characteristics of building materials of various compositions as well as modeling phenomena/processes that occur during the use of materials and structures made from them. the authors analyze the merits of the approach of modeling in the context of compliance computational models to reality, consider the significance of the selection of the proper model (type of mathematical function, number of input data) which should be based on the knowledge of modeled material or phenomenon and later adequate verification of the model. the authors also underline importance of proper interpretation of results obtained by calculation. misrepresentation may result in a misstated model of the studied phenomenon and lead to incorrect conclusions, which puts the researcher far from the truth, that he or she should always seek for.
materials_engineering	the mapping of the human genome is an important basis for the development of new medicals and medical treatments. consequently, it has attracted tremendous research funding over the last decade. on june 2011, the materials genome initiative was announced by the us president obama as collaboration on modeling and advanced materials databases. unfortunately, the materials genome was given a rather vague definition in the announcement. however, the materials genome should be defined in analogy with biological genomes and one may then conclude that: at any moment, the performance of a specific material depends on its chemical composition ( inherent property stored in its genome) and its environment ( external interactions-processing-conditions during usage). the materials genome should thus be defined as a set of information encoded in the language of thermodynamics obtained by careful assessment of experimental data and quantum mechanical calculations from which certain conclusions about the material can be drawn. the calphad databases contain the thermodynamic and kinetic properties of a materials system. such databases allow the prediction of materials structure as well as its response to processing and usage conditions, and are major parts of integrated computational materials engineering.
materials_engineering	mechanosensory neurons detect physical events in the local environments of the tissues that they innervate. studies of mechanosensitivity of neurons or nerve endings in the gut have related their firing to strain, wall tension, or pressure. digital image correlation (dic) is a technique from materials engineering that can be adapted to measure the local physical environments of afferent neurons at high resolution. flat-sheet preparations of guinea pig distal colon were set up with arrays of tissue markers in vitro. firing of single viscerofugal neurons was identified in extracellular colonic nerve recordings. the locations of viscerofugal nerve cell bodies were inferred by mapping firing responses to focal application of the nicotinic receptor agonist 1,1dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium iodide. mechanosensory firing was recorded during load-evoked uniaxial or biaxial distensions. distension caused movement of surface markers which was captured by video imaging. dic tracked the markers, interpolating the mechanical state of the gut at the location of the viscerofugal nerve cell body. this technique revealed heterogeneous load-evoked strain within preparations. local strains at viscerofugal nerve cell bodies were usually smaller than global strain measurements and correlated more closely with mechanosensitive firing. both circumferential and longitudinal strain activated viscerofugal neurons. simultaneous loading in circumferential and longitudinal axes caused the highest levels of viscerofugal neuron firing. multiaxial strains, reflecting tissue shearing and changing area, linearly correlated with mechanosensory firing of viscerofugal neurons. viscerofugal neurons were mechanically sensitive to both local circumferential and local longitudinal gut strain, and appear to lack directionality in their stretch sensitivity.
materials_engineering	this paper presents the result of a teaching methodology in a first year engineering subject, materials and processes, to improve the overall grade and associated pass rate. students with borderline university entrance have shown great difficulty during their first year in the engineering degree program. the ""smoothing-in"" of school graduates into the first year is a transition period, with second year being the first intensive engineering form of study. at our university, a system of teaching and learning strategies in a common first year subject, materials and processes, has been implemented over the past few years to improve both the grades and the student pass rate. this approach was taken because many universities have to accept students with lower entrance scores to fill quotas in engineering which are increasing, as employment prospects pick up. in this first year subject, the student academic results have increased an overall grade but not with a cohort pass rate. results from a series of student surveys indicate significant positive student feedback on this teaching and learning approach which resulted in the grade improvement. these results have encouraged the continuation of similar approaches to other first year subjects.
materials_engineering	increasing concerns regarding oil spills, air pollution, and climate change associated with fossil fuel use have increased the urgency of the search for renewable, clean sources of energy. this assessment describes the potential of ocean thermal energy conversion (otec) to produce not only clean energy but also potable water, refrigeration, and aquaculture products. higher oil prices and recent technical advances have improved the economic and technical viability of otec, perhaps making this technology more attractive and feasible than in the past. relatively high capital costs associated with otec may require the integration of energy, food, and water production security in small island developing states (sidss) to improve cost-effectiveness. successful implementation of otec at scale will require the application of insights and analytical methods from economics, technology, materials engineering, marine ecology, and other disciplines as well as a subsidized demonstration plant to provide operational data at near-commercial scales. (c) 2011 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
strength_of_materials	in this paper, the method of discrete element model (dem) simulation was used to investigate the mechanical properties of sic ceramic materials under the action of pre-stress. using the bonded particle model (bpm), several different numerical tests (such as uct, tpb, senb tests) of sic ceramic were established. different pre-stress values were applied on the lateral surface of the ceramic specimen during the numerical simulation process, all tests were carried out at least 5 times with different random number, and the average mechanical properties results were calculated. it was showed that the existence of pre-stress has a significant effect on the mechanical properties of materials. it can enhance the strength of materials, while the force action on material in machining process force or action force the crack 's initiation and propagation was limited.
strength_of_materials	currently, within the framework of graduate education the student has to make a strong self-learning work. in the technical field this task is complicated by the difficulty of the contents covered. so to make better use of sessions is necessary that the student reaches previous knowledge independently of addressing the truly relevant contents and difficulties at these meetings. the work consists in the design of a didactic unit combining e-learning activities with sessions in order to improve academic productivity in the new context of higher education. the unit is designed in the engineering field, specifically in the subject of strength of materials of a mechanical engineering degree. by combining telelearning activities the student will acquire the basic skills needed to carry out a practical activity, consisting in the analysis, using the technique of photoelasticity. students must attain the knowledge and skills necessary for the practice in the laboratory and then fulfill the evaluation of the results, responding to questions asked by the teacher.]
strength_of_materials	hollow silica spheres were synthesized by template/sol-gel approach, using cationic polystyrene (ps) as template and tetraethoxysilane (teos) as precursor. the void size of hollow silica sphere was decided by the diameter of their ps templates. hollow silica spheres with controllable size between 0.71 mu m and 1.8 mu m were obtained by varying the parameters of polymerization (the monomer, the initiator, the stabilizer and the polarity of the dispersion medium). the shell thickness of hollow silica spheres could be easily changed in the range of 20 nm to 60 nm by changing the teos concentration from 0.4 mmol/l to 0.8 mmol/l. both the size and shell thickness of hollow silica spheres have effects on their bulk density, the thermal conductivity and strength of materials.
strength_of_materials	nanostructured materials are a relatively new class of materials that exhibit advanced mechanical properties, thus improving performance and capabilities of products, with potential applications in the automotive, aerospace and defense industries. among the severe plastic deformation (spd) methods currently used for achieving nanoscale structures, accumulative roll bonding (arb) is the most favorable method to produce grain refinement for continuous production of metallic sheets at a bulk scale. in this article, a model that describes the evolution of material strength due to processing via accumulative roll bonding was developed. arb experiments were conducted on cp-ti grade 2 at a selected set of conditions. the results showed significant grain refinement in the microstructure (down to similar to 120 nm) and a two-fold increase in tensile strength as compared to the as-received material. the developed model was validated using the experimental data, and exhibited a good fit over the entire range of arb processing cycles. to further validate the model and ensure its robustness for a wider array of materials (beyond cp-ti), a review of efforts on arb processing was carried out for five other materials with different initial microstructures, mechanical properties, and even crystalline structures. the model was still able to capture the strengthening trends in all considered materials. (c) 2013 the society of manufacturing engineers. published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
strength_of_materials	the duration of load (dol) effect is the combined influence of the mechanical loading history and climatic history on the strength of materials. dol effect is one of the most important characteristics of wood and wood-based materials. the material degradation or damage induces strength reductions. creep is one of the most important effects of dol. creep is a phenomenon that negatively affects functional compliance, behavior and strength of timber structures in extended years of exploitation. the creep phenomenon is affected by surrounding temperature, relative humidity, timber moisture content and other factors. the study aimed to establish a correct factor system for accurate prediction of long-term deformations of timber structures that is corresponding to environmental conditions and timber properties in the region of latvia. the experimental research was made in jelgava, latvia, and represents timber beam four-point long-term loading in bending with variable cross section height-span length ratio under uncontrolled climatic conditions. there were 12 timber beams with two different span lengths - 1.32 m and 1.50 m used. the timber beam cross section dimensions: height - 60 mm, width - 30 mm. the timber beams were not dried and the moisture content at the start of the experiment varied from 19% to 33%. the applied load values - 0.40 kn and 0.31 kn. moisture content fluctuations and negative air temperature accelerated creep development and intensity. prediction of final long-term deformations should rate not only the type of timber material and service class but the strength class, too.
internal_combustion_engine	a comprehensive mathematical model is proposed to calculate the optimal leg length and cross-section area of teg unit to maximize the peak output power. the model shows that for a teg unit, there exists an optimal ratio of leg length and leg cross-section area corresponding to the maximum peak output power with a convective thermal boundary condition, and the optimal leg length and cross-section area can be further calculated based on the optimal ratio. the mathematical model is also validated in this paper, and the corresponding error is within a reasonable range. moreover, the effects of the leg length and leg area on the peak output power, the peak output power density and the efficiency of teg unit with different thermal boundary conditions are also discussed. this study will provide guidance for the structure design optimization of teg unit. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
internal_combustion_engine	internal combustion engines were the technology of choice for propulsion and decentral power supply in the last century. due to the high energy density of hydrocarbon based fuels that could so far not be reached by alternative technologies they will keep their leading role in most applications for the next decades. although, its general functionality seems to be unchanged since its invention, the internal combustion engine has gone through substantial developments driven by various challenges. within these, the pollution control has to be named first due to its role as the main driver for engine and aftertreatment development since the discussions on air quality which started 70 years ago. meanwhile, all industrialized countries and most of the emerging countries have more or less stringent regulations for the main harmful exhaust components (hc, co, nox, particulates). the second main challenge to be named is the reduction of co2 emissions. various engine technologies that are currently used to tackle these global trends lead to major impact on the exhaust aftertreatment components. to tackle these challenges the exhaust aftertreatment development has to be understood as integrated, multi-disciplinary and multi-scale design process considering engine design and operation, on board diagnosis and aftertreatment design and operation likewise.
internal_combustion_engine	using closed loop control of the internal combustion engine is beneficial to reducing emission and fuel consumption. accurate combustion parameters are the foundation of effective closed loop control. some combustion parameters, including the start of combustion, the location of maximum pressure rise rate and the location of peak pressure can be identified from the vibration signals. empirical mode decomposition (emd) method is introduced to reconstruct the vibration acceleration signal, from which the combustion parameters are identified. however, there are angle deviations between the combustion parameters extracted from the reconstructed vibration acceleration signal and those from the cylinder pressure. algorithms to correct the angle deviations are introduced. a system deviation value is used to correct the extracted start of combustion with an error bound being within 0.6 degrees ca. two algorithms are proposed to correct the deviation between the predicted location of maximum pressure rise rate and that from the cylinder pressure. test results show that the two algorithms are able to correct the deviation within 0.3 degrees ca error bound. the location of peak pressure can be predicted with the knee point following the peak value in the reconstructed vibration acceleration signal. the predicted result is then corrected using a linear regression of the location of peak pressure versus the knee point within 0.5 degrees ca error bound. a real-time monitoring framework is utilized for calculating the combustion parameter prediction. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
internal_combustion_engine	this work describes an integrated method of 3d modelling algorithms with a modal approach in a multibody environment which provides a slimmer and more efficient simulation of flexible component contacts realistically reproducing system impacts and vibrations. a non-linear numerical model of the impulse contact forces based on the continuity approach of lankarani and nikravesh is developed. the model developed can evaluate deformation energy taking into account the material 's characteristics, surface geometries and the velocity variations of the bodies in contact. adams (r)-type modelling is applied to the sliding contacts of the links of a chain and its mechanical tensioner (""blade"") in the timing of an internal combustion engine. the blade was discretized by subdividing it into smaller components inter-connected with corresponding centres of gravity through 3d general forces. static and dynamic tests were performed to evaluate the stiffness, damping and friction parameters for the multibody model and to validate the methodology.
internal_combustion_engine	recycling braking energy is significant to improve the total energy efficiency of electric vehicles (evs). moreover, braking safety must be maintained under complex conditions. as the actuator, the electric traction motor has much better features than the internal combustion engine, e.g., faster torque response and capability for energy feedback. from the perspective of energy efficiency and safety, highlighting regenerative braking is a meaningful but challenging problem. in this paper, a braking system using only electric motors/generators as the actuators is investigated, in which the energy may be potentially fed back to the onboard energy storage system (ess) as much as possible. the energy that may be recovered to the ess is analyzed. tomaintain the stability and to improve the performance of the regenerative braking in unknown tire-road conditions, a knowledge-based methodology in a hierarchical control structure is proposed, where the maximum adhesion force and the motor reference torque (mrt) are determined online. the proposed methodology avoids the complex determination of the optimumslip ratio, while acquiring nearly the optimumantiskid braking performance. simulation and experiment were carried out to validate the effectiveness.
