label 0	ASIAN EXPORTERS FEAR DAMAGE FROM U.S.-JAPAN RIFT Mounting trade friction between the U.S. And Japan has raised fears among many of Asia's exporting nations that the row could inflict far-reaching economic damage, businessmen and officials said. They told Reuter correspondents in Asian capitals a U.S. Move against Japan might boost protectionist sentiment in the U.S. And lead to curbs on American imports of their products. But some exporters said that while the conflict would hurt them in the long-run, in the short-term Tokyo's loss might be their gain. The U.S. Has said it will impose 300 mln dlrs of tariffs on imports of Japanese electronics goods on April 17, in retaliation for Japan's alleged failure to stick to a pact not to sell semiconductors on world markets at below cost. Unofficial Japanese estimates put the impact of the tariffs at 10 billion dlrs and spokesmen for major electronics firms said they would virtually halt exports of products hit by the new taxes. "We wouldn't be able to do business," said a spokesman for leading Japanese electronics firm Matsushita Electric Industrial Co Ltd &lt;MC.T>. "If the tariffs remain in place for any length of time beyond a few months it will mean the complete erosion of exports (of goods subject to tariffs) to the U.S.," said Tom Murtha, a stock analyst at the Tokyo office of broker &lt;James Capel and Co>. In Taiwan, businessmen and officials are also worried. "We are aware of the seriousness of the U.S. Threat against Japan because it serves as a warning to us," said a senior Taiwanese trade official who asked not to be named. Taiwan had a trade trade surplus of 15.6 billion dlrs last year, 95 pct of it with the U.S. The surplus helped swell Taiwan's foreign exchange reserves to 53 billion dlrs, among the world's largest. "We must quickly open our markets, remove trade barriers and cut import tariffs to allow imports of U.S. Products, if we want to defuse problems from possible U.S. Retaliation," said Paul Sheen, chairman of textile exporters &lt;Taiwan Safe Group>. A senior official of South Korea's trade promotion association said the trade dispute between the U.S. And Japan might also lead to pressure on South Korea, whose chief exports are similar to those of Japan. Last year South Korea had a trade surplus of 7.1 billion dlrs with the U.S., Up from 4.9 billion dlrs in 1985. In Malaysia, trade officers and businessmen said tough curbs against Japan might allow hard-hit producers of semiconductors in third countries to expand their sales to the U.S. In Hong Kong, where newspapers have alleged Japan has been selling below-cost semiconductors, some electronics manufacturers share that view. But other businessmen said such a short-term commercial advantage would be outweighed by further U.S. Pressure to block imports. "That is a very short-term view," said Lawrence Mills, director-general of the Federation of Hong Kong Industry. "If the whole purpose is to prevent imports, one day it will be extended to other sources. Much more serious for Hong Kong is the disadvantage of action restraining trade," he said. The U.S. Last year was Hong Kong's biggest export market, accounting for over 30 pct of domestically produced exports. The Australian government is awaiting the outcome of trade talks between the U.S. And Japan with interest and concern, Industry Minister John Button said in Canberra last Friday. "This kind of deterioration in trade relations between two countries which are major trading partners of ours is a very serious matter," Button said. He said Australia's concerns centred on coal and beef, Australia's two largest exports to Japan and also significant U.S. Exports to that country. Meanwhile U.S.-Japanese diplomatic manoeuvres to solve the trade stand-off continue. Japan's ruling Liberal Democratic Party yesterday outlined a package of economic measures to boost the Japanese economy. The measures proposed include a large supplementary budget and record public works spending in the first half of the financial year. They also call for stepped-up spending as an emergency measure to stimulate the economy despite Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone's avowed fiscal reform program. Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith and Makoto Kuroda, Japan's deputy minister of International Trade and Industry (MITI), are due to meet in Washington this week in an effort to end the dispute.  
label 0	JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS A top U.S. Official said Japan has little chance of convincing the U.S. To drop threatened trade sanctions, despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left for Washington today. Michael Armacost, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, was asked at a press conference whether Japan's moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese imports said, and replied: "...It is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described." Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports, remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues. "There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area, but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues," he said. "The question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the (trade) imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation," he said.  
label 0	JAPANESE OFFICIAL TAKES DATA TO MICROCHIP TALKS Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) Vice Minister Makoto Kuroda leaves for Washington today with data he hopes will refute U.S. Charges Japan has violated a pact on microchip trade. A three-man Japanese trade team is already in Washington laying the groundwork for talks between Kuroda and Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Michael Smith aimed at persuading the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on certain Japanese products. But Kuroda said he is taking no new proposals. "I have nothing in my briefcase except an explanation of the current situation," Kuroda told the daily newspaper Asahi Shimbun. Kuroda said the U.S. Decision was based on incorrect data and an exaggerated sense of MITI's power to control market forces. "The U.S. Has excessive expectations. To stabilise supply-demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time," he said. Kuroda also laid part of the blame for low U.S. Chip sales in Japan on a lack of effort by American firms here. He said if he fails in talks tomorrow and Friday to forestall sanctions, he will seek further talks with U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter. U.S. Officials said this week's talks are unlikely to delay imposition of tariffs.  
label 0	JAPAN GIVEN LITTLE HOPE OF AVOIDING U.S. SANCTIONS A top U.S. Official said Japan has little chance of persuading the U.S. to drop threatened trade sanctions, despite the efforts of a Japanese team that left for Washington today. Michael Armacost, Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs, was asked at a press conference whether Japan's moves to boost its domestic economy and open its markets could persuade the U.S. Not to impose tariffs on Japanese imports said, and replied: "...It is probably too early for the figures to demonstrate that the situation has turned around and to permit the result you have described." Armacost said the U.S. Hopes Japan will take steps to lift its domestic economy and reduce dependence on exports, remove barriers to imports and settle outstanding trade issues. "There are obvious problems at the moment in the trade area, but we do not wish those problems to divert attention from important areas of cooperation that continue to exist on security and political issues," he said. "The question is whether through cooperative actions between our governments we can reduce the (trade) imbalance or whether Congress takes action to reduce it through protectionist legislation," he said.  
label 0	JAPAN IN LAST-DITCH EFFORT TO AVERT TARIFFS Senior Japanese officials tomorrow open talks with American trade negotiators in a last-ditch effort to avert new high U.S. tariffs to be imposed on a wide variety of Japanese electronic exports. Makoto Kuroda, vice minister of Japan's Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), is to hold two days of meetings with the Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, Michael Smith, and the Under Secretary of Commerce, Bruce Smart. The new tariffs, to go into effect on April 17, are in retaliation for Japan's failure to adhere to an agreement to end dumping semiconductors in world markets at below cost and to open its home market to U.S. semiconductor shipments. They are to be imposed on goods which use semiconductors, including television and audio equipment and computers. Both U.S. and Japanese officials have said there was little likelihood the talks would do anything to avert the 100 pct duties on 300 mln dlrs worth of Japanese shipments. President Reagan announced the planned tariffs on March 27 after he said that close monitoring of the July 1986 U.S.-Japanese semiconductor pact convinced U.S. officials that Japan was not honoring the agreement. In making the annoucement, Reagan said "I am committed to the full enforcement of our trade agreements designed to provide American industry with free and fair trade." Trade analysts said his move was aimed as much at Japan's semiconductor trade practices, which are said to have injured the U.S. semiconductor industry, as Congress, which has complained about presidential timidity on trade issues. Congressional Democrats have pledged to enact aggressive trade laws to counter what they contend has been Reagan's inaction to redress the growing U.S. trade deficit, which last year reached 169.8 billion dlrs. About one-third of the deficit was with Japan. Reagan said there were recent signs Japan was beginning to adhere to the pact and that was why he was not terminating it. Kuroda said on leaving Tokyo today he had no new proposals but did have an explanation of the semiconductor situation. He told the daily newspaper Ashai Shimbun that Reagan's decision was based on inaccurate data and an exaggerated sense of MITI's power to control Japanese traders. "The United States has excessive expectations.," he said. To stabilize supply-demand relations which have been disrupted by excess inventories since 1985 will take some time." He also said that U.S. firms had not been aggressive enough in trying to sell in the Japanese market.  
label 0	WHITE HOUSE STANDING FIRM ON JAPANESE SANCTIONS Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said U.S. trade sanctions against Japan were likely take effect on April 17 in spite of a "full court press" by Japanese officials to avoid them. "All indications are they will take effect," he said. "I would say Japan is applying the full court press ... They certainly are putting both feet forward in terms of explaining their position," Fitzwater told reporters. He noted high level meetings on the trade dispute are underway here but said, "I don't think there's anything I can report and I don't believe there's been any official movement."  
label 0	WHITE HOUSE SAYS JAPANESE TARRIFFS LIKELY The White House said high U.S. Tariffs on Japanese electronic goods would likely be imposed as scheduled on April 17, despite an all-out effort by Japan to avoid them. Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater made the remark one day before U.S. And Japanese officials are to meet under the emergency provisions of a July 1986 semiconductor pact to discuss trade and the punitive tariffs. Fitzwater said: "I would say Japan is applying the full-court press...They certainly are putting both feet forward in terms of explaining their position." But he added that "all indications are they (the tariffs) will take effect."  
label 0	DEFICIT CUTS SEEN UNABLE TO CURE TRADE DEFICIT Financial analysts say they are pleased with congressional moves to trim next year's federal budget deficit but believe the actions will do little to help improve the U.S. trade deficit or buoy the economy. The House of Representatives is expected to vote tomorrow to approve a trillion-dollar budget blueprint for the coming fiscal year that reduces the deficit by 38 billion dlrs. Similarly, the Senate Budget Committee has approved a plan that would cut federal red ink by about 37 billion dlrs next year. "In terms of the economy, 37-38 billion dlrs is infinitesimal, so cuts of this magnitude will have little impact on the economy and the trade deficit," said Stanley Collander, a Touche Ross federal budget policy analyst. "At best, it will have a small positive effect," Collander said in an interview. Federal Reserve Board Chairman Paul Volcker has repeatedly told Congress that cutting federal red ink would go a long way to help reduce the massive trade deficit and also help ease some of the downward pressure on the value of the dollar. The U.S. government has attempted to remedy the trade imbalance by driving down the value of the dollar. But Volcker has warned that a further fall in the dollar's value is fraught with danger. Such a decline, he has said, could refuel inflation as imported goods become more expensive and chase away foreign capital needed to finance the federal budget deficit. In addition, in February, U.S. officials meeting with other major industrialized nations in Paris agreed that the value of the dollar had dropped enough and that world exchange rates should be stabilized at around current levels. As part of that agreement, Japan and West Germany agreed to take steps to stimulate their economies and the United States agreed to cut its budget deficit. The alternative to driving down the dollar any further as a way to deal with the trade deficit, Volcker said recently, is to reduce U.S. consumption, particularly federal spending. "If you don't deal with the budget deficit, everything else you do is going to be counterproductive," Volcker said in recent testimony before the Senate Banking Committee. Volcker also said he would prefer to further tighten the government's purse strings than have the Fed tighten the credit supply if action was needed to fight inflationary pressures or to assure the continued flow of foreign capital into the United States. Analysts say that Fed tightening now could choke off the current modest economic expansion and threaten a recession. Kemper Financial Services economist John Silvia stressed that any deficit reduction was better than none. But he said the size of the cuts under consideration were not enough to give the Federal Reserve Board the flexibility it needs to steer the economy or to keep the value of the dollar from plunging further in world exchange markets. "There's no doubt that some deficit reduction helps, but if your objective is to stabilize the dollar and perserve the Fed's flexibility to conduct monetary policy, then the answer is, it's not enough," Silvia told Reuters. The U.S. trade deficit has become one of the government's most vexing and persistent problems. The 1986 deficit was 169.8 billion dlrs and there is as yet little indication that this year's figure will be any lower, though administration officials have predicted it will drop by about 20 to 30 billion dlrs by year's end. In the past, Volcker has joked that he never lost sleep worrying whether Congress would cut too much fat from the federal budget. On the other hand, he also has made it clear he is not attached to the gradually declining deficit ceilings set for the 1986-1991 period by last year's Gramm-Rudman balanced budget law. While the new law set a ceiling of 108 billion dlrs for next year's federal deficit, both the House and Senate Budget Committees have conceded that their budget plans would fall short of the deficit reduction goal by about 25 billion dlrs. "For political reasons, 35 to 40 billion dlrs is about the most you're going to get" out of Congress at the present time, said Touche Ross's Collander. "To do something more than that would be extraordinary, remarkable and very, very difficult." Collander said the real danger for Congress was to end up short of the deficit reduction goal set by its Budget panels. "To an extent, this has become the minimum acceptable reduction level," he explained. "Anything less than that will now look like a failure to Wall Street." The budget plan now under debate on the House floor would lower an estimated 171 billion dlr deficit for the year beginning on October one to about 133 billion dlrs by cutting defense and domestic programs by 38 billion dlrs from their anticipated spending levels for next year. The Senate Budget Committee has called for a deficit of nearly 134 billion dlrs with about 18.5 billion dlrs in new taxes and about the same amount in spending cuts.  
label 0	SOVIET TRADE DEFICIT WITH WEST SOARS IN 1986 The Soviet trade deficit with the West almost quadrupled last year, reaching 2.72 billion roubles compared with 713 mln in 1985, official figures showed. Statistics published by the monthly journal Foreign Trade showed Soviet trade turnover for 1986 fell to 130.9 billion roubles from 142.1 billion the previous year, a drop of 7.8 pct. Moscow's trade surplus with East Bloc countries continued to grow in 1986. Western analysts attributed the deficit rise with the West to the world oil price slump, which hit Moscow's main export and cut hard currency earnings needed for purchases in the West.  
label 0	CANADA FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS 1.25 BILLION DLRS AFTER JANUARY 623 MLN DLRS SURPLUS  CANADA FEBRUARY TRADE SURPLUS 1.25 BILLION DLRS AFTER JANUARY 623 MLN DLRS SURPLUS  
label 1	CHINA DAILY SAYS VERMIN EAT 7-12 PCT GRAIN STOCKS A survey of 19 provinces and seven cities showed vermin consume between seven and 12 pct of China's grain stocks, the China Daily said. It also said that each year 1.575 mln tonnes, or 25 pct, of China's fruit output are left to rot, and 2.1 mln tonnes, or up to 30 pct, of its vegetables. The paper blamed the waste on inadequate storage and bad preservation methods. It said the government had launched a national programme to reduce waste, calling for improved technology in storage and preservation, and greater production of additives. The paper gave no further details.  
label 1	USDA SEEKS COMMENTS ON GRAIN DISCOUNT SCHEDULE The U.S. Agriculture Department is seeking public comments on the question of adjusting the Commodity Credit Corporation's (CCC) discount and premium schedules to improve the quality of grain it accepts as loan collateral or under price support programs. The premiums and discounts schedule are based on quality factors such as moisture content and kernel damage. The schedule stipulates the premiums and discounts used for valuing grain the CCC accepts or purchases during the year. The department said it is possible that producers could be encouraged to delivery higher quality grain to CCC by adjusting the premiums and discounts. Comments are due by April 24 and a report to Congress is required by law by May 10.  
label 1	ARGENTINE GRAIN BELT WEATHER REPORT ARGENTINE GRAIN BELT TEMPERATURES (CENTIGRADE) AND RAIN (MM) IN THE 24 HOURS TO 12.00 GMT WERE: ...............MAX TEMP..MIN TEMP..RAINFALL BUENOS AIRES.......24.......12............0 BAHIA BLANCA.......22........7............0 TRES ARROYOS.......22........8............0 TANDIL.............22........7............0 JUNIN..............24.......11............0 SANTA ROSA.........--........6............0 CORDOBA............23.......12............1 SANTA FE...........21.......18...........17 REUTER  
label 1	USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  28.0 MLN TONNES VS 26.0 IN MARCH, 29.9 YEAR AGO  USDA ESTIMATES 1986/87 USSR GRAIN IMPORTS  28.0 MLN TONNES VS 26.0 IN MARCH, 29.9 YEAR AGO  
label 1	USDA ESTIMATES 1986 SOVIET GRAIN CROP  AT 210 MLN TONNES VS 210 IN MARCH, 192 YEAR-AGO  USDA ESTIMATES 1986 SOVIET GRAIN CROP  AT 210 MLN TONNES VS 210 IN MARCH, 192 YEAR-AGO  
label 1	COARSE GRAIN SUPPLY/DEMAND BY COUNTRY -- USDA The U.S. Agriculture Department detailed world supply/demand data for major importers and exporters of coarse grains, by country, as follows in mln tonnes -- USSR COARSE GRAIN 1986/87           1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  N.A.    N.A.      N.A.    N.A. Production 103.30  103.30     99.99   99.99 Imports     12.00   10.00     13.70   13.70 Domes Use  112.30  112.30    111.99  111.99 Exports       NIL     NIL       NIL     NIL End Stocks   N.A.    N.A.      N.A.    N.A. N.A. - Not Available. EC-12 COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87            1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 14.91   14.93    10.53   10.53 Production  81.22   81.19    88.21   88.28 Imports     16.58   17.26    18.29   18.24 Dom Use     79.64   81.27    82.38   82.55 Exports     19.90   19.96    19.73   19.56 End Stocks  13.18   12.15    14.91   14.93 EASTERN EUROPE COARSE GRAIN, mln tonnes -- 1986/87            1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  4.07    3.72     5.14    5.14 Production  73.95   74.50    68.28   68.38 Imports      4.90    4.47     5.58    5.26 Dom Use     73.04   73.23    72.65   72.77 Exports      3.55    3.55     2.28    2.28 End Stocks   6.34    5.46     4.07    3.72 JAPAN COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87           1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 2.32    2.23     1.91    1.91 Production  0.35    0.35     0.39    0.39 Imports    21.56   21.50    21.51   21.51 Dom Use    21.79   21.73    21.49   21.49 Exports      NIL     NIL      NIL     NIL End Stocks  2.44    2.44     2.32    2.32 ARGENTINA COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87            1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.78    0.53     0.83    0.83 Production  13.99   15.44    17.06   17.14 Imports      0.02     NIL      NIL     NIL Domes Use    7.73    7.75     7.76    7.87 Exports      6.60    7.73     9.43    9.58 End Stocks   0.46    0.49     0.78    0.53 CANADA COARSE GRAIN, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87            1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks 6.19    6.19     4.66    4.61 Production 27.62   27.62    24.95   24.95 Imports     0.30    0.30     0.31    0.31 Dom Use    19.80   19.80    18.99   18.96 Exports     7.41    7.21     4.74    4.72 End Stocks  6.90    7.10     6.19    6.19 THAILAND COARSE GRAINS, in mln tonnes -- 1986/87            1985/86 04/09/87 03/09/87  04/09/87 03/09/87 Start Stcks  0.49    0.38     0.16   0.16 Production   4.40    4.40     5.67   5.47 Imports       NIL     NIL      NIL    NIL Domes Use    1.57    1.37     1.40   1.30 Exports      3.10    3.30     3.94   3.95 End Stocks   0.22    0.11     0.49   0.38  
label 1	BULGARIA, ROMANIA GRAIN CROP SEEN LESS FAVORABLE Current prospects for this year's grain crop in Bulgaria and Romania appear less favorable than in 1986, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Belgrade said in a field report. The report said the assessment was based on travel in the two countries from March 30 to April 4. It said crop conditions were better than earlier expected following the extreme dry conditions last fall and the prolonged winter temperatures this spring. However, in general plant development was at least three weeks or more behind normal this spring, and conditions varied greatly by regions, the report said. Fields seeded during the optimum period last fall, and especially those receiving supplemental irrigation water (about 65 pct of the fields observed), appeared to be in good condition, with little evidence of winterkill, while others varied considerably, the report said. Fields lacking adequate moisture last fall showed weak and uneven stands. Spotty germination and winterkill in those fields averaged 10 to 30 pct, it said.  
label 1	U.S./SOVIET GRAIN MEETING UNLIKELY THIS SUMMER Prospects appear slim for a summer meeting between U.S. and Soviet officials before the two countries enter the final year of their bilateral grains agreement, Agriculture Department officials said. The two sides usually try to meet as each new year of the agreeement approaches although the last meeting was delayed up to last February. However, any delay this year should not endanger the fifth year of the grains agreement that extends through September, 1988, USDA officials said. "It will be difficult to pull together the people for the meeting during July," an aide to USDA undersecretary Daniel Amstutz said. Since the last meeting was only around four months ago, the next talks could still be a "couple more months," he said.  There has been grain industry speculation that the USDA will offer Moscow another wheat subsidy during the next marketing year. But USDA officials said even if consultations were held soon a subsidy offer would probably not be made. "I doubt that there would be any subsidy offer this summer or before the next agreement year begins," a USDA source said. Citing limited subsidy funds and uncertainties about next year's crops, he said, "There are too many variables now. It would be uncharacteristic of us to make an offer now." Under the nonbinding pact, Moscow has agreed to purchase a minimum of nine mln tonnes of U.S. grain per year. Soviet and U.S. officials normally meet in the summer before the start of a new agreement year to discuss grain quality, shipping logistics and production outlooks.  
label 1	SOVIET 1988 GRAIN TARGET INDICATES 1987 OUTPUT Recent announcements from Moscow of next year's grain production targets indicate that the Soviets are estimating this year's grain crop at 205 to 213 mln tonnes, Agriculture Department analysts said. USDA is projecting the Soviet crop at 210 mln tonnes, but some earlier estimates from Soviet officials were that the 1987 grain crop could match the 1978 record of 237 mln tonnes. Moscow outlined its economic targets for 1988 on Monday, putting the grain harvest goal at 235 mln tonnes. An analyst of Soviet agriculture at USDA noted that a recent article in Izvestia said Soviet grain production in 1988 is planned to be "25 to 30 mln tonnes more than expected this year." "This indicates that their own estimate is for a 205 to 213 mln tonne (grain) crop," the analyst said.  In calculating Moscow's crop estimate, USDA used the 235 mln tonne production goal, as well as a 238 mln tonne figure published in a Soviet economic journal this month. USDA's production estimate of 210 mln tonnes reflects a range of 207 to 212 mln tonnes, a USDA source said. Late season rains damaged Soviet crops, slowed harvest progress and lowered Soviet production, analysts said. While in the U.S. earlier this month, Soviet agriculture official Viktor Nikonov predicted that the grain crop would be as good or better than last year's 210 mln tonne harvest. A member of Nikonov's party commented that although 230 mln tonnes of grain were in the fields, harvest problems would bring the final crop down to around 210 mln tonnes.  
label 1	U.S. SENATE PANEL VOTES TO LIMIT COUNTY LOAN RATE  CHANGES STARTING WITH 1988 CROPS  U.S. SENATE PANEL VOTES TO LIMIT COUNTY LOAN RATE  CHANGES STARTING WITH 1988 CROPS  
label 2	AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS BUT NSW PORTS HIT Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW), Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute, shipping sources said. The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim, had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels, they said. The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration Commission today. Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said. The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the state's workers' compensation laws. The shipping sources said the various port unions appear to be taking it in turn to work for a short time at the start of each shift and then to walk off. Cargo handling in the ports has been disrupted, with container movements most affected, but has not stopped altogether, they said. They said they could not say how long the disruption will go on and what effect it will have on shipping movements.  
label 2	AUSTRALIAN FOREIGN SHIP BAN ENDS Tug crews in New South Wales (NSW), Victoria and Western Australia yesterday lifted their ban on foreign-flag ships carrying containers but NSW ports are still being disrupted by a separate dispute, shipping sources said. The ban, imposed a week ago over a pay claim, had prevented the movement in or out of port of nearly 20 vessels, they said. The pay dispute went before a hearing of the Arbitration Commission today. Meanwhile, disruption began today to cargo handling in the ports of Sydney, Newcastle and Port Kembla, they said. The industrial action at the NSW ports is part of the week of action called by the NSW Trades and Labour Council to protest changes to the state's workers' compensation laws.  
label 2	INDEPENDENT CHAIRMAN FOR DUTCH CARGO DISPUTE The two sides in the Rotterdam port general cargo dispute have agreed to appoint an independent chairman, Han Lammers, to preside over future meetings, employers' spokesman Gerard Zeebregts said. Lammers, Queen's Commissioner for the province of Flevoland, will not act as a mediator but will draw up an agenda and procedures for meetings between the employers and unions on a work-practice agreement and proposed redundancies. Two months of strikes in the sector began on January 19 in protest at employers' proposals for 350 redundancies from the 4,000-strong workforce this year. The strikes were called off by the main port union FNV on March 13 following an Amsterdam court's interim injunction against the redundancies on procedural grounds. The court is due to make a final ruling on May 7 but Zeebregts said he expected the judgment to go against the employers and they were therefore very likely to restart the complicated legal redundancy procedures in the near future. Meanwhile, the dispute over a new work-practice agreement in the port's grain sector continued, with 30 maintenance workers on strike, although loading was not affected, a spokesman for Graan Elevator Mij, the largest employer in the sector, said. The employers have written to the union asking it to reconsider its position and a meeting of union members has been called for tomorrow.  
label 2	TODD SHIPYARDS &lt;TOD> STRUCK ON WEST COAST Todd Shipyards Corp said production workers represented by the multi-union Pacific Coast Metal Trades District Council at its San Francisco division struck on April Six. It said negotiations are expected to resume at the end of this month. Todd also said the collective bargaining division in effect at its Galveston Division expires April 17, and negotiations with the Galveston Metal Trades Council are continuing. The company said results of balloting on a new collective bargaining agreement proposal in its Seattle Division are expected to be tabulated at the close of business tomorrow. The Pacific Coast Council has recommended acceptance of that proposal by membership, Todd said.  
label 2	AUSTRALIAN UNIONS AND NSW GOVERNMENT REACH DEAL Union and New South Wales government officials have reached a compromise in a dispute over workers compensation, averting increased industrial action in the state, union sources said. But some unions, including those of building and mining workers, said they were dissatisfied with the deal and would continue their strikes for a few more days. State officials said the government had agreed to revise its proposals to cut compensation and would allow slightly higher cash benefits for injured workers. Under the original proposal, which sparked strikes and other industrial action in the state on April 7, workers' compensation would have been cut by one third. Full details of the compromise package are not yet known. The Labour Council, affiliated to the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU), had threatened to paralyse New South Wales unless the government modified its pending legislation on the issue. State officials said the only sectors affected in the past three days were some government building projects, railway freight movement and cargo handling in Sydney's ports.  
label 2	IRAN SAYS IT WILL COMBAT GULF INTERVENTION Iranian foreign minister Ali Akbar Velayati warned that Iran would combat any superpower intervention in the Gulf. "Iran, which is the most powerful (country) in the Gulf... Will not allow the superpowers or any other foreign forces to interfere in the region," he said. Velayati, visiting the United Arab Emirates on the first leg of a Gulf tour, told reporters Iran had the "capabilities and means" to prevent any interference. President Reagan has pledged to keep the Gulf sealanes open and to protect Kuwaiti tankers from possible Iranian attack.  
label 2	MOSCOW SAYS WILL RETALIATE AGAINST GULF ATTACKS Any Iranian attack on Soviet ships in the Gulf will bring a forceful and violent response, a Soviet foreign ministry official said in an interview published here. Alexander Ivanov, head of the Gulf desk at the Soviet Foreign Ministry, told Al-Rai al-Aam newspaper Moscow "will answer back with force and violence if Iran attempts to attack any Soviet ship or tanker in the Gulf." A Soviet tanker hit a mine in the Gulf last month. Ivanov also accused the United States of stepping up the regional crisis and of failing to exert genuine efforts to end the Iran-Iraq war.  
label 2	KUWAIT REJECTS IRANIAN SPY BOAT CHARGES Kuwait, a target of Iranian anger over the emirate's backing for Iraq in the Gulf war, today rejected charges that fishing vessels seized recently by Iran were spy boats. "There are no bases of truth to the contents of the Iranian accusation on the nature of the operations of the vessels recently taken into custody by Iran. These vessels were out fishing," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. It said Iranian Charge d'Affaires Mohammad Baqeri was summoned by the Ministry yesterday to confer with Foreign Undersecretary Suleiman Majed al-Shaheen. The Iranian News Agency IRNA said on Sunday Iran had seized seven Kuwaiti speed boats and detained their crew, who confessed to spying for Iraq under the cover of fishing. It said the boats were intercepted in the Khur Abdullah waterway which separates Kuwait and Iraq's Faw peninsula at the head of the Gulf, captured by Iran last year. The Kuwaiti response came as Iranian envoys toured Gulf Arab states saying responsibility for security and stability in the waterway was a regional matter. A U.S. Senate team was scheduled today to meet Kuwait's Crown Prince and Prime Minister Sheikh Saad al-Abdulla al-Sabah and the defence and oil ministers. Today's Foreign Ministry statement, carried by the Kuwait News Agency KUNA, said the recent detention of Kuwaiti fishing vessels by Iran was not the first. Tehran in the past had held back a number of vessels Kuwait had sought to release through diplomatic contacts, it said. "However, Kuwait is perplexed that this time the Iranian charges are accompanied by accusations that the vessels were undertaking espionage activities," it said. Shaheen condemned the detentions and accusations, and asked Tehran to free all fishing boats and sailors held by Iran, the statement said.  
label 2	COLOMBO TO DEFEND WATERS, INDIA READIES FLOTILLA Sri Lanka today ordered its armed forces to defend the island's territorial waters as India prepared to send a flotilla with relief supplies that Colombo says it does not want for the Tamils in the Jaffna peninsula. The sudden crisis between Sri Lanka and its giant neighbour deepened as Prime Minister Ranasinghe Premadasa told parliament: "We have our territorial limits and nobody can be allowed to trespass there ... "President (Junius) Jayewardene has ordered the army, navy and air force to protect the island and its territorial waters," Premadasa said to a round of applause from the house. In New Delhi an Indian spokesman said the plan to send a flotilla of 20 small unarmed boats with Red Cross supplies to Jaffna tomorrow would go ahead despite Colombo's objections. The confrontation was the latest result of the long and bitter conflict between Sri Lanka's Buddhist Sinhalese majority and the Hindu Tamil minority, which has strong ethnic and cultural links with India's 50 mln Tamils.  
label 2	NEED FOR BIGGER ALLIED FORCE IN GULF PLAYED DOWN Secretary of State George Shultz said today that a boost in allied forces in the Mideast Gulf was not vital to protect shipping against attack but that possible allied contributions should be examined. Asked if he saw the need for a greater military presence by the allies in the gulf, Shultz told reporters, "Not necessarily, particularly, so." But he said an adequate force was needed to deter attack and noted that the British and the French, as well as the United States, maintained naval contingents there. "We have to look at things that others might do," he said.  
label 3	WESTERN MINING TO OPEN NEW GOLD MINE IN AUSTRALIA Western Mining Corp Holdings Ltd &lt;WMNG.S> (WMC) said it will establish a new joint venture gold mine in the Northern Territory at a cost of about 21 mln dlrs. The mine, to be known as the Goodall project, will be owned 60 pct by WMC and 40 pct by a local W.R. Grace and Co &lt;GRA> unit. It is located 30 kms east of the Adelaide River at Mt. Bundey, WMC said in a statement It said the open-pit mine, with a conventional leach treatment plant, is expected to produce about 50,000 ounces of gold in its first year of production from mid-1988. Annual ore capacity will be about 750,000 tonnes.  
label 3	BELGIUM TO ISSUE GOLD WARRANTS, SOURCES SAY Belgium plans to issue Swiss franc warrants to buy gold, with Credit Suisse as lead manager, market sources said. No confirmation or further details were immediately available.  
label 3	BELGIUM LAUNCHES BONDS WITH GOLD WARRANTS The Kingdom of Belgium is launching 100 mln Swiss francs of seven year notes with warrants attached to buy gold, lead mananger Credit Suisse said. The notes themselves have a 3-3/8 pct coupon and are priced at par. Payment is due April 30, 1987 and final maturity April 30, 1994. Each 50,000 franc note carries 15 warrants. Two warrants are required to allow the holder to buy 100 grammes of gold at a price of 2,450 francs, during the entire life of the bond. The latest gold price in Zurich was 2,045/2,070 francs per 100 grammes.  
label 3	BELGIUM LAUNCHES BONDS WITH GOLD WARRANTS The Kingdom of Belgium is launching 100 mln Swiss francs of seven year notes with warrants attached to buy gold, lead manager Credit Suisse said. The notes themselves have a 3-3/8 pct coupon and are priced at par. Payment is due April 30, 1987, and final maturity April 30, 1994. Each 50,000 franc note carries 15 warrants. Two warrants are required to allow the holder to buy 100 grammes of gold at a price of 2,450 francs, during the entire life of the bond. The latest gold price in Zurich was 2,045/2,070 francs per 100 grammes.  
label 3	GORDEX MINERALS LOCATES GOLD DEPOSITS &lt;Gordex Mineral Ltd> said geologists located more than one mln tons of gold-bearing deposits, 0.057 ounces per ton, at Cape Spencer. The company said it plans to invest 2.5 mln Canadian dlrs to expand on-site treatment facilities to process 100,000 tons of gold-bearing deposits this year and 200,000 tons in 1988. Prior to the completion of the recent exploration program, Gordex estimated the Cape Spencer deposit had 200,000 tons. Gordex said the expansion of the Cape Spencer facilities is intented to enable it to operate 24 hours a day throughout the year.  
label 3	GORDEX MINERALS LOCATES CANADA GOLD DEPOSITS Gordex Mineral Ltd said geologists located more than one mln short tons of gold-bearing deposits, 0.057 ounces per ton, at Cape Spencer. The company said it plans to invest 2.5 mln Canadian dlrs to expand on-site treatment facilities to process 100,000 tons of gold-bearing deposits this year and 200,000 tons in 1988. Prior to the completion of the recent exploration program, Gordex estimated the Cape Spencer deposit had 200,000 tons. Gordex said the expansion of the Cape Spencer facilities is intended to enable operation 24 hours a day throughout the year.  
label 3	ST.GOBAIN UNIT ISSUES ECU BOND WITH GOLD WARRANTS St.Gobain Netherlands, guaranteed by Cie de St.Gobain, is issuing a 75 mln ECU bond with gold warrants attached, due May 6, 1992 carrying a 4-1/2 pct coupon and priced at par, lead manager Salomon Brothers International Ltd said. Fees comprise 1-1/4 pct selling concession with 5/8 pct for management and underwriting combined. Listing is in Luxembourg. Each 1,000 ECU bond carries one gold warrant exercisable from May 6, 1987 until May 6, 1990 entitling the holder to purchase one ounce at an exercise price of 490 dlrs.  
label 3	SIX KILLED IN SOUTH AFRICAN MINE Six workers were killed and four injured in an undeground rock fall at South Africa's second largest gold mine today, the mine owners said. It was the third major mine accident in the country in less than a week. Thirty four workers died in methane gas explosion at a coal mine last Thursday.  
label 3	GIANT BAY &lt;GBYLF> IN IDAHO GOLD VENTURE Giant Bay Resources Ltd said it signed an agreement in principle with Hecla Mining Co for an operating joint venture on Hecla's Stibnite, Idaho, gold deposit. Giant Bay said if its bioleaching technology is used for ore processing, it will have the right to acquire a working interest in the property. It said it may spend as much as three mln U.S. dlrs, excluding capital costs to bring the mine into production. It said drilling has indicated substantial sulphide reserves with a gold grade of about 0.1 ounce a ton, and early tests show the gold ore responds to bioleaching.  
label 3	HOMESTAKE &lt;HM> MULLS BUYING ORE RESERVES Homestake Mining Co is considering acquiring more gold ore reserves in addition to the company's exploration efforts, chief executive Harry Conger told Reuters in an interview. "We are looking at more options to acquire more reserves rather than just exploration," Conger said adding, "the move to consider acquisitions represents a change in the company's acquisitions policy." Conger said all of Homestake's current cash position of 120 mln dlrs would be available to acquire reserves. In addition, Homestake has two lines of credit totaling 150 mln dlrs which have not been drawn on today and could be used to finance an acquisition, he said. Conger said he anticipates 1987 exploration budget will be about the same as 1986 spending of 27.3 mln dlrs. Conger said exploration for precious metals may be slightly higher than last year's spending of 17.7 mln dlrs while oil and gas exploration spending will be slightly less than last year's 9.6 pct. Conger said he sees Homestake's 1987 gold production about the same as 1986 gold production of 669,594 ounces. However, 1987 first quarter production from its McLaughlin reserve will be about 10 pct lower than last year's 45,400 ounces due to start-up production problems. He said he believes gold prices will hold above the 400 U.S. dlr an ounce level for the rest of 1987. IN 1986, company earnings were based an average market price for gold of 368 dlrs an ounce. Conger said a three pct change in gold prices represents a 12 cts a share impact on earnings but he declined to give a specific forecast for 1987's first quarter, due to be released in 10 days, or for full year 1987 results.  
label 4	SUMITOMO BANK AIMS AT QUICK RECOVERY FROM MERGER Sumitomo Bank Ltd &lt;SUMI.T> is certain to lose its status as Japan's most profitable bank as a result of its merger with the Heiwa Sogo Bank, financial analysts said. Osaka-based Sumitomo, with desposits of around 23.9 trillion yen, merged with Heiwa Sogo, a small, struggling bank with an estimated 1.29 billion dlrs in unrecoverable loans, in October. But despite the link-up, Sumitomo President Koh Komatsu told Reuters he is confident his bank can quickly regain its position. "We'll be back in position in first place within three years," Komatsu said in an interview. He said that while the merger will initially reduce Sumitomo's profitability and efficiency, it will vastly expand Sumitomo's branch network in the Tokyo metropolitan area where it has been relatively weak. But financial analysts are divided on whether and how quickly the gamble will pay off. Some said Sumitomo may have paid too much for Heiwa Sogo in view of the smaller bank's large debts. Others argue the merger was more cost effective than creating a comparable branch network from scratch. The analysts agreed the bank was aggressive. It has expanded overseas, entered the lucrative securities business and geared up for domestic competition, but they questioned the wisdom of some of those moves. "They've made bold moves to put everything in place. Now it's largely out of their hands," said Kleinwort Benson Ltd financial analyst Simon Smithson. Among Sumitomo's problems are limits placed on its move to enter U.S. Securities business by taking a share in American investment bank Goldman, Sachs and Co. Sumitomo last August agreed to pay 500 mln dlrs for a 12.5 pct limited partnership in the bank, but for the time being at least, the Federal Reserve Board has forbidden them to exchange personnel, or increase the business they do with each other. "The tie-up is widely looked on as a lame duck because the Fed was stricter than Sumitomo expected," said one analyst. But Komatsu said the move will pay off in time. "U.S. Regulations will change in the near future and if so, we can do various things. We only have to wait two or three years, not until the 21st century," Komatsu said. Komatsu is also willing to be patient about possible routes into the securities business at home. Article 65 of the Securities and Exchange Act, Japan's version of the U.S. Glass-Steagall Act, separates commercial from investment banking. But the walls between the two are crumbling and Komatsu said he hopes further deregulation will create new opportunities. "We need to find new business chances," Komatsu said. "In some cases these will be securities related, in some cases trust bank related. That's the kind of deregulation we want." Until such changes occur, Sumitomo will focus on such domestic securities business as profitable government bond dealing and strengthening relations with Meiko Securities Co Ltd, in which it holds a five pct share, Komatsu said. He said Sumitomo is cautiously optimistic about entering the securities business here through its Swiss universal bank subsidiary, Banca del Gottardo. The Finance Ministry is expected to grant licences to securities subsidiaries of U.S. Commercial banks soon, following a similar decision for subsidiaries of European universal banks in which the parent holds a less than 50 pct. But Komatsu is reluctant to push hard for a similar decision on a Gottardo subsidiary. "We don't want to make waves. We expect this will be allowed in two or three years," he said. Like other city banks, Sumitomo is also pushing to expand lending to individuals and small and medium businesses to replace disappearing demand from big business, he added. The analysts said Sumitomo will have to devote a lot of time to digesting its most recent initiatives, including the merger with ailing Heiwa Sogo. "It's (Sumitomo) been bold in its strategies," said Kleinwort's Smithson. "After that, it's a question of absorbing and juggling around. It will be the next decade before we see if the strategy is right or wrong."  
label 4	CRA SOLD FORREST GOLD FOR 76 MLN DLRS - WHIM CREEK &lt;Whim Creek Consolidated NL> said the consortium it is leading will pay 76.55 mln dlrs for the acquisition of CRA Ltd's &lt;CRAA.S> &lt;Forrest Gold Pty Ltd> unit, reported yesterday. CRA and Whim Creek did not disclose the price yesterday. Whim Creek will hold 44 pct of the consortium, while &lt;Austwhim Resources NL> will hold 27 pct and &lt;Croesus Mining NL> 29 pct, it said in a statement. As reported, Forrest Gold owns two mines in Western Australia producing a combined 37,000 ounces of gold a year. It also owns an undeveloped gold project.  
label 4	ANHEUSER-BUSCH JOINS BID FOR SAN MIGUEL Anheuser-Busch Companies Inc &lt;BUD.N> has joined several other foreign bidders for sequestered shares of the Philippines' largest food and beverage maker San Miguel Corp &lt;SANM.MN>, the head of a government panel which controls the shares told Reuters. Ramon Diaz, Secretary of the Presidential Commission on Good Government (PCGG), said Anheuser-Busch had told the government it was interested in buying 14 mln "B" shares of San Miguel. He did not disclose the offered price. Diaz said Australian brewer Alan Bond's Bond Corp Holdings Ltd had offered 150 pesos per share for the "B" shares. Diaz said New York investment bank Allen and Co Inc had earlier said it was interested in buying all 38.1 mln sequestered shares. He told Reuters last month Elders IXL Ltd &lt;ELXA.S>, the Melbourne-based brewing company, had also bid for the "B" shares. The Hong Kong Economic Journal last month quoted a spokesman of Australian stock broker Jacksons Ltd as saying that &lt;Barwon Farmlands Ltd>, an Australian firm owned 30 pct by &lt;Ariadne Australia Ltd>, was planning a Filipino branch in order to buy the entire block of 38.1 mln shares. Anheuser-Busch last year made a 150 mln dlr bid to buy &lt;San Miguel Brewery Ltd>, a Hong Kong listed company which is 69.65 pct owned by &lt;Neptunia Corp Ltd>, a San Miguel Corp subsidiary. The talks broke down last June after the two sides said they could not agree on the terms of the sale.  
label 4	MONIER SAYS BRITAIN'S REDLAND MAY BID FOR IT Diversified building materials group Monier Ltd &lt;MNRA.S> said talks are taking place which may lead to Britain's Redland Plc &lt;RDLD.L> making an offer for the Monier shares it does not already hold, chairman Bill Locke said. Redland already holds about 49 pct of Monier's 156.28 mln issued shares, he said in a brief notice to the Australian Stock Exchange. Locke said shareholders would be advised as soon as the discussions progressed and recommended that they keep their shares. Monier shares were trading at a 1987 high of 3.10 dlrs today, up from the previous peak of 2.80 at yesterday's close, and well above the 1987 low of 2.18 dlrs. Monier is the largest concrete roof tile manufacturer in Australia, the U.S. And New Zealand and the world's largest marketer of fly ash, according to its annual report for 1985/86 ended June 30. It recently reported first-half 1986/87 net fell to 15.02 mln dlrs from 17.09 mln a year earlier due to the Australian housing downturn, although foreign earnings rose.  
label 4	BELL GROUP CONFIRMS STANDARD CHARTERED STAKE The Bell Group Ltd &lt;BLLA.S> said it now holds 14.9 pct of the issued capital of Standard Chartered Plc &lt;STCH.L> after acquiring further shares. The one-sentence statement from Bell's headquarters confirmed what its brokers Warburg Securities told Reuters in London yesterday. Bell previously held 10 pct of Standard. Bell chairman Robert Holmes a Court, who is also a director of Standard, was not available for comment on his company's intentions in boosting its holding and other company officials contacted here by Reuters declined to comment.  
label 4	NIPPON STEEL DENIES CHINA SEEKING JAPANESE PLANTS Nippon Steel Corp &lt;NSTC.T> denied local newspaper reports that China has been seeking to buy steel plants from Japanese firms which plan to suspend output under the recently announced rationalisation program. The Mainichi Shimbun quoted Nippon Steel as saying that China's State Planning Commission and some Chinese firms have asked Japanese makers to sell them steel works and rolling mills to expand steelmaking cheaply. It named no sources. A Nippon Steel spokesman told Reuters that China has made no such official request, and the company was not considering such sales at the moment. But Mainichi quoted Nippon Steel officials as saying if prices are reasonable, they would export their used mills to China. The paper said China's crude steel output totalled 52 mln tonnes in calendar 1986 and that it plans to increase to 80 mln by 1996. Japan's steel industry rationalisation plan is aimed at cutting production capacity sharply over the next few years.  
label 4	SAN MIGUEL DEAL HIT BY MORE LAWSUITS A bid by San Miguel Corp (SMC) &lt;SANM.MN> to buy back 38.1 mln sequestered shares from United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) has been hit by two new lawsuits, sources in the Philippine food and brewery company said. A Manila court yesterday issued an injunction barring UCPB from selling the shares, which represent 31 pct of SMC's outstanding capital stock of 121 mln shares, until hearings on April 21 on a petition filed by Eduardo Cojuangco, a former chairman of both SMC and UCPB. Cojuangco said the Coconut Industry Investment Fund (CIIF) and 1.4 mln farmers were the rightful owners of the shares. Cojuangco said the shares were held in trust by UCPB and represented a blue chip investment. His petition said UCPB's plans to sell the shares to SMC were "a serious breach of fiduciary duties." The SMC sources said the proposed share sale could also be held up by a second derivative suit filed before the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) by Eduardo de los Angeles, a government nominee on the company's board. De los Angeles, who represents SMC's minority stockholders, asked the SEC to block the transaction, approved last week by the company's board. On April 2 the board sanctioned the repurchase of the sequestered shares for 4.79 billion pesos at 126 pesos per share. De los Angeles told the SEC the company's retained earnings of 1.33 billion pesos would be wiped out by the purchase of the shares and would prevent the declaration of dividends. De los Angeles said the share purchase would also violate an SMC agreement with its creditors to maintain a 2.2-to-1 debt to equity ratio. He quoted SMC's chief financial director Ramon del Rosario as telling the board that the transaction would boost the ratio to 2.5-to-1. In petitioning the SEC, de los Angeles amended an earlier suit two weeks ago in which he charged SMC Chairman Andres Soriano III and nine other directors of violating their duties. De los Angeles' earlier complaint related to SMC assuming last December a 26.5 mln dlr loan contracted by SMC's Hong Kong subsidiary &lt;Neptunia Corp> for a down payment on the shares. The loan assumption was again ratified by last week's board meeting. An arbitration panel set up by President Corazon Aquino to resolve the ownership issue is expected to submit its report by April 15. "The amended suit filed by Eduardo de los Angeles is part of a continuing attempt by certain elements, in complete disregard of the facts and with questionable motives, to delay an early disposition of the sequestered shares," San Miguel Corp said in a statement. "Coming as it does, when San Miguel Corp and UCPB have reached agreement on the price of the shares and the method of payment, this suit is in direct contravention of the government's expressed desire to reach an amicable settlement of the controversy by April 15," the statement added. A San Miguel spokesman said he had no comment on Cojuangco's court petition, adding: "Any statement coming from us might be interpreted as adversarial." Meanwhile, Ramon Diaz, the head of a government panel which sequestered the shares last year, said Soriano was not eligible to buy the major portion of the shares because he was a United States citizen. The sequestered shares are split into 24 mln "A" shares, which can only be owned by Filipinos, and 14 mln "B" shares which are available to foreign buyers. SMC sources said Soriano personally was not among prospective buyers. They said the shares would be purchased by the &lt;A.Soriano> group of companies, SMC, Neptunia and unnamed institutional investors. Soriano was named as one of the buyers in a bid in March 1986 for 33 mln shares controlled by UCPB. The sale was aborted when Diaz's Presidential Commission on Good Government sequestered the shares on suspicion they were owned by Cojuangco, a close associate of former President Ferdinand Marcos. Cojuangco lives in self-imposed exile in the U.S.. The shares grew to 38.1 mln after a 15 pct stock dividend announced last June. "We have no objection to Soriano buying the "B" shares," Diaz told Reuters. "But everything is on hold now." The SMC spokesman said he did not know if the controversy would be resolved before the company's annual stockholders' meeting, scheduled for May 14. San Miguel Corp reported sales revenue of 12.2 billion pesos in 1986, 11 pct above its 10.9 billion peso sales in 1985. It said unaudited net profit was in the neighbourhood of 700 mln pesos, an increase of about 50 pct over 1985.  
label 4	CINCINNATI BELL &lt;CSN> STARTS AUXTON &lt;AUXT> BID Cincinnati Bell Inc said it has started its previously-announced 15.75 dlr per share tender offer for all shares of Auxton Computer Enterprises Inc. In a newspaper advertisement, the company said the tender and withdrawal rights will expire May Five unless extended. The offer, which has been approved by the Auxton board and is to be followed by a merger at the same price, is conditioned on receipt of a majority of Auxton's voting stock on a fully diluted basis.  
label 4	UNILEVER SEEKS BUYER FOR STAUFFER CHEMICAL Unilever Plc and NV &lt;UN.AS> has issued a prospectus through investment bankers Goldman Sachs and Co seeking a buyer for &lt;Stauffer Chemical Co> of the U.S., Which it acquired with the recent takeover of &lt;Chesebrough-Pond's Inc>, a Unilever spokesman said. He noted Unilever has been indicating plans to dispose of Stauffer, plus some smaller assets of Chesebrough, since the bid was made in December. The Stauffer sale prospectus has been sent in recent weeks to a number of companies expressing interest. The Unilever spokesman declined to say how much the group expected to receive for Stauffer. Chesebrough's footwear and tennis racket businesses are also likely to be disposed of, he added. Immediately available financial information on Stauffer, which is wholly-owned, was limited, he added. Nine month sales to September 1986 were about 1.2 billion dlrs. Unilever aquired Chesebrough for 3.2 billion dlrs in order to benefit from its well-known toiletry brands and food products.  
label 4	CONRAC CORP SAID IT HAS ENTERED TALKS ON ITS ACQUISITION WITH SEVERAL PARTIES CONRAC CORP SAID IT HAS ENTERED TALKS ON ITS ACQUISITION WITH SEVERAL PARTIES  
label 5	SUBROTO SAYS INDONESIA SUPPORTS TIN PACT EXTENSION Mines and Energy Minister Subroto confirmed Indonesian support for an extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA), but said a new pact was not necessary. Asked by Reuters to clarify his statement on Monday in which he said the pact should be allowed to lapse, Subroto said Indonesia was ready to back extension of the ITA. "We can support extension of the sixth agreement," he said. "But a seventh accord we believe to be unnecessary." The sixth ITA will expire at the end of June unless a two-thirds majority of members vote for an extension.  
label 5	EC MAINLY FOR TIN EXTENSION, NO U.K. STAND TAKEN European Community (EC) members of the International Tin Council, except Britain, have said they are prepared to back an extension of the International Tin Agreement, an EC spokesman said. He said at a meeting of EC states' representatives here yesterday, Britain undertook to communicate its own decision to its partners today. It said it was not ready yesterday to take a stand but did not say why. He added nine other EC states backed an extension. Spain and Portugal, which are not members of the International Tin Council, raised no objections to a common EC stance in favour.  
label 5	PARIS GROUP PUBLISHING DAILY FRANC TIN PRICE The Association of White Metals has decided to publish a daily tin price here in French francs per 100 kilos, the French Federation of Non-Ferrous Metals said. The price, quoted for the first time yesterday, was introduced as the lack of tin quotes was causing problems for some French companies, a spokesman for the non-ferrous metals association said. Today's price was set at 4,776 francs per 100 kilos and Tuesday's at 4,790. The International Chamber of Commerce stopped publishing a tin price after the London Metal Exchange (LME) stopped tin trading on October 24, 1985. The Association has tested the basis it uses to calculate a French franc price over the last few months to ensure it was reliable, the spokesman said. The French franc price is pre-tax, for specified quality, a minimum 99.9 pct purity, at a French port or border railway station and a minimum delivery of 10 tonnes. The French Federation of Non-Ferrous Metals groups various metal associations including the Association of White Metals.  
label 5	TALKS CONTINUE ON TIN AGREEMENT EXTENSION Discussions on the possible extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA) began at the quarterly session of the International Tin Council (ITC) but the Council is still waiting for decisions from various member states. A number of producer governments in particular have not decided their final position on whether the ITA should be extended for up to two years or wound down after it expires on June 30, according to delegate sources. Earlier today European Community (EC) members decided to back an extension, with the exception of Britain, which undertook to communicate its decision to its EC partners later. Delegates said it could be Friday before all the member countries declare their positions on the possible extension. Today's full Council session started shortly before 1500 GMT after the scheduled 1330 start was delayed by an EC coordination meeting. The council reconvenes at 0930 GMT tomorrow, although delegates said the morning is likely to be taken up with minor technical matters and the main issue will probably not be discussed before the afternoon session.  
label 5	SPOT TIN EASIER ON EUROPEAN FREE MARKET Spot tin on the European free market was indicated in the easier range 4,200 to 4,230 stg per tonne, for high grade metal in warehouse Rotterdam, down 20 stg from yesterday's afternoon kerb close. Stability in sterling versus the dollar continued to apply pressure to a market which is coming close to testing a psychological chart support base at 4,200 stg, traders said. Dealers said major consumers still need to cover their May and June requirements but are holding out for even lower offers. Reported high grade tin business in London was confined to end April metal at 4,225 stg. Small-scale spot business was reported by West German operators at 12.60 and 12.63 marks per kilo although the market was still being undercut by Chinese material, which traded at one stage down to 12.54 marks per kilo, traders said.  
label 5	CONSENSUS SEEN ON TIN PACT EXTENSION The quarterly session of the International Tin Council (ITC) continued without formal agreement on an extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement (ITA), but delegates said it was apparent there was a general consensus the Agreement should be prolonged. Some delegations are still awaiting formal instructions from capitals, but informally most have indicated they favour an extension, delegates said. This afternoon's session was used by delegates to seek further clarification on some of the issues involved, and to discuss internal matters. Some sources were optimistic a resolution on an extension could be passed tomorrow but others suggested a special session would be convened to adopt the resolution after the Association of Tin Producing Countries meeting April 14 to 16. The full Council session resumes tomorrow at 1330 GMT after a European Community coordination meeting at 1100.  
label 5	TIN TRADERS' RESPONSE MUTED TO KL FUTURES MARKET European free market tin traders made a somewhat muted response to plans for a Kuala Lumpur dollar-based tin futures market due to be launched in October. Traders said the new market would probably be a useful trading medium for Japan and other South East Asian tin interests although European traders generally appear to be reasonably satisfied with the current "free market" system which has been operating since London Metal Exchange, LME, tin trading ceased in October 1985. Dealers here will also want to see how acceptable foreign metal will be on the new market and what sort of demand develops for forward deliveries. There is also a view among European traders that, while the proposed Kuala Lumpur tin futures market would provide another useful reference point, a market inaugurated by the Malaysian government -- in the past viewed as a major player at times by the trade -- would make participants uncomfortable. Some traders expressed a preference for a resumption of trading on the London Metal Exchange, but they added that while there has been some behind the scenes discussion on the subject a definite move is unlikely until outstanding High Court litigation actions have been resolved. Spot tin prices on the European free market are currently around 4,200 stg per tonne for high grade metal in warehouse Rotterdam. Over the past 18 months the price moved to a ten year low of 3,400 stg in March 1986 and rebounded to as high as 4,680 stg in December 1986. This compares with 8,140 stg last paid when LME trading ceased in October 1985 and a record high tin price of 10,350 stg traded for Cash Standard Grade metal in June of that year. LME warehouse stocks are now near a two-year low at 28,065 tonnes, having fallen steadily from a record high of 72,485 tonnes reached in February 1986. Traders said the free market turned bullish during late last year based on producer forecasts of a supply/demand deficit of some 28,000/29,000 tonnes. Analysts were predicting prices of up to 5,000 stg per tonne during 1987. However, the trend was reversed following a strong upswing in sterling versus the dollar and values fell back briefly to 4,100 stg last month after approaching 4,700 stg in December. The decline accelerated as producers who had sold very little metal at the higher levels became competitive sellers. There was also a lack of significant demand from major steel mills who made large purchases prior to the new year. Traders say the 15 ITC creditor banks' original tin holdings of nearly 45,000 tonnes have now been almost halved, and the bulk of material still available is being held by Malaysian and Japanese firms which are reluctant to depress the market with unwanted metal. Some 80,000 tonnes were held by banks and brokers after the International Tin Council's, ITC, buffer stock manager halted support operations on the LME on behalf of the 22 members nations of the International Tin Agreement. The overhang of metal was reduced further by broker Shearson Lehman Brothers, which earlier this year reported having sold its ITC-related holdings and halved its overall tin position. Analysts see no immediate sign of a rally in European tin prices and movements are still expected to be largely related to currency fluctuations, unless significant consumer demand emerges for the third quarter. The Association of Tin Producing Countries, ATPC, has made efforts since the collapse of the ITA to achieve higher world prices by attempting to bring all major producers under an export control umbrella, but to date Brazil and China, two major producers, remain unaffected by the ATPC argument and apparently are continuing to offer material at discounts to consumers in main European trading centres, dealers said.  
label 5	ITC CONTESTS USE OF DOCUMENTS AS COURT EVIDENCE The International Tin Council, ITC, intervened in a High Court hearing in an attempt to prevent the presentation of internal Council documents as evidence. The intervention in Shearson Lehman's action against the London Metal Exchange over its "ring out" of tin contracts in 1986 is likely to have implications for other cases in which the Council is involved following the collapse of its buffer stock operations in October 1985, ITC delegates said. The ITC's case is being presented by Professor Rosalyn Higgins and is expected to take a further one or two days next week. Court does not sit tomorrow. In essence the Council is claiming that its status is similar to that of a foreign embassy and that its archives can therefore not be used in an English court of law. The Council ended its quarterly session today ahead of schedule. The meeting had been expected to go on until tomorrow when the European Community's legal advisers were due to attend, but delegates reviewed the progress of the various legal actions today. Otherwise, the meeting was occupied with internal administrative matters, delegates said. The ITC will continue to operate with a reduced staff after June 30 following the two year extension of the sixth International Tin Agreement. As well as dealing with the ongoing litigation, the Council will continue with its statistical work and carry out some research studies, although staffing in the research department is being cut to one from two previously. At this week's session the Council elected Philip Sparkes of Australia as first vice-chairman for the producing members and Heinz Hofer of Switzerland as second vice-chairman for the consumers for the year from July 1. Future quarterly sessions are scheduled for October 5/7 and December 14/16.  
label 5	THAI SMELTER FACES TIN CONCENTRATE SUPPLY SHORTAGE Thailand's major tin exporter and producer &lt;Thailand Smelting and Refining Co> (Thaisarco) said it may be unable to meet all its overseas orders because of insufficient supplies of tin concentrates from Thai mines. Local mines cut combined daily tin concentrate sales to Thaisarco, a Royal Dutch/Shell Group &lt;RD.AS> unit, to less than 20 tonnes earlier this month from a previous 40 to 45 tonne average, commercial manager Yoot Eamsa-ard told Reuters. He said the cuts resulted from a government decision to let the temporary business and municipal tax reductions on exported tin lapse on June 3. The taxes, levied on the tin mines, rose to 4.4 pct this month from 1.1 pct ad valorem over the past year. The lower levels had been introduced last year as a temporary move to aid the tin industry after prices collapsed in late 1985. Yoot said Thaisarco had to dig into its stocks to meet a large portion of new overseas orders which were averaging 100 tonnes per day. As a result, he said, Thailand could fail to fill some 3,000 tonnes of its 19,000 tonne tin export quota allocated by the Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) for the year ending February 1988. Reduced tin exports this year could cause the ATPC to allocate a lower quota next year, Yoot said. The supplies shortage should prove temporary, however, because the Thai cabinet is expected to review a Mineral Resources Department proposal to reinstate the low taxes late this month, Yoot said. The department said Thailand exported 7,715 tonnes of tin during January/May compared with 8,462 tonnes a year ago.  
label 5	TIN COUNCIL ALLOWED APPEAL ON USE OF DOCUMENTS Britain's highest court has decided the International Tin Council (ITC) can appeal over the use of ITC documents in court actions. On November 2 the House of Lords will decide if and to what extent ITC documents, whether circulated or not, are admissible as court evidence. Lawyers working in the legal tangle left from the October 1985 collapse of the tin market said this hearing is likely to last a few days. On Wednesday the Court of Appeal will link the outstanding ITC cases that have so far reached it and a single set of hearings could begin in early January, they added. The House of Lords ruling on the use of ITC documents will be referred back to the action by two Shearson Lehman companies against the London Metal Exchange although the underlying case is not expected to be resumed until mid-1988. The Court of Appeal hearings include action between brokers and cases by brokers and banks against the ITC and the member governments of the tin council. Action taken by brokers seeking both the winding up of the ITC or and placing it into receivership will also be covered by the Court of Appeal legal schedule.  
label 6	CHINA INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES IN FIRST QUARTER China's industrial output rose 14.1 pct in the first quarter of 1987 against the same 1986 period, the People's Daily said. Its overseas edition said the growth rate, which compares with a target of seven pct for the whole of 1987, was "rather high" but the base in the first quarter of 1986 was on the low side. Industrial output grew 4.4 pct in the first quarter of 1986. It said China's industrial production this year has been normal but product quality and efficiency need further improvement. It gave no further details.  
label 6	SWEDISH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES SHARPLY Swedish industrial production rose 2.6 pct in February, after a 1.8 pct fall in January, showing a 4.4 pct rise over February 1986 and reaching its highest level ever, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. The rise reflected recovery in almost all sectors after an exceptionally cold spell in January, the Bureau said, adding that the highest rises were seen in the forest, chemical and metal industries.  
label 6	FRENCH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION RISES IN FEBRUARY French industrial production rose a seasonally adjusted three pct in February after an unrevised 1.98 pct fall in January, the National Statistics Institute (INSEE) said. The figure, which excludes construction and public works, put the February index, base 1980, at 102 after 99 in January. INSEE changed its base year to 1980 from 1970 last month.  
label 6	BANK OF FRANCE SEES PICKUP IN INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY The Bank of France said in its latest monthly report on the French economy it expected a pickup in industrial production registered in March to gather steam over the next few months. Without giving figures, the report said last month's rise, partly linked to efforts to catch up with production lost earlier this year through industrial action, was due mainly to a firming of domestic demand. "New progress is expected in all main sectors except capital goods where production will remain at its present level," the report added. The upbeat report comes in the wake of grim March trade balance figures which showed a deficit in industrial trade for the first time since June 1982. While the automobile industry remained unchanged from previously boosted levels, consumer goods production grew and was expected to accelerate except in the area of domestic appliances. Semi-finished goods showed a clear increase in all sectors. Construction and civil engineering, boosted by a rise in public works, also improved, while retail trade sales in all sectors continued to slow.  
label 6	SOVIET INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT UP IN FIRST QUARTER Soviet industrial output in the first quarter of this year grew by 2.5 pct compared with the first three months of 1986, Tass news agency reported. A regular meeting of the Politburo heard that in March, industry achieved the average daily rate needed to fulfil annual targets. Quarterly plans were exceeded in the fuel and power sector and agriculture, where output grew by 8.7 pct compared with the same period last year, it said. Plans were not fulfilled by the engineering and building ministries, the chemical and timber sectors, rail transport and light industry, it added.  
label 6	BELGIAN FEBRUARY INDUSTRY OUTPUT DOWN ON YEAR AGO Belgian industrial production, excluding construction and adjusted for seasonal and calendar influences, was provisionally 0.6 pct lower in February than a year earlier, the National Statistics Office said. Output in February was, however, 5.9 pct higher than in January. A spokeswoman for the office said the production index, base 1980, rose to a provisional 108.8 in February from a provisional 102.7 in January, slightly revised from the 102.8 originally estimated. In February last year the index stood at 109.5.  
label 6	U.K. APRIL INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 0.3 PCT, MANUFACTURING UP 0.55 PCT - OFFICIAL  U.K. APRIL INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 0.3 PCT, MANUFACTURING UP 0.55 PCT - OFFICIAL  
label 6	DUTCH INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION FALLS 6.4 PCT IN APRIL Dutch seasonally adjusted industrial production fell by 6.4 pct in April compared with the previous month, and was 5.5 pct down on the same period last year, figures from the official Statistics Bureau CBS show. The April index, base 1980, stood at 103. In March, industrial production rose by 2.8 pct from February. The unadjusted April index figure fell 14 pct from March to 104, compared with a 10 pct rise in March over February.  
label 6	French industrial production fell 0.95 pct in July/August from June -- INSEE data  French industrial production fell 0.95 pct in July/August from June -- INSEE data  
label 6	SOVIET UNION SETS 4.5 PCT INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT GROWTH Soviet Planning chief Nikolai Talyzin told the Supreme Soviet (parliament) industrial output is planned to rise by 4.5 pct in 1988, up from a planned 4.4 pct in 1987. In the first nine months of this year, industrial output rose by 3.6 pct. Talyzin said national income, the nearest Soviet equivalent to gross national product, is planned to rise by 4.3 pct against a planned 4.1 pct this year. He said grain production is planned at 235 mln tonnes in 1988, compared with a planned 232 mln this year. The Soviet Union produced 210 mln tonnes of grain in 1986 and the Soviet press has said heavy rain has affected the harvest this year. Talyzin said the 1988 Soviet plan stressed the engineering industry, which Kremlin leader Mikhail Gorbachev has described as a sector where rapid modernisation is essential if the Soviet Union is to compete effectively on world markets. "Certain difficulties have arisen this year in the machine-building industry. The economy is not receiving a considerable amount of the equipment that it requires," said Talyzin, who heads the state planning committee Gosplan. Soviet data show the machine-building industry, which makes machine tools, instruments and other engineering goods, increased output by 3.3 pct in the first nine months of this year against the same period of 1986. This is well below the 7.3 pct rise planned for the industry for all of 1988. Talyzin said the ruling Politburo concluded at a recent meeting that an improvement in economic performance depended to a large extent on conserving resources better. "Large-scale measures are planned to save resources," he said. Finance Minister Boris Gustev told the Supreme Soviet defence spending in 1988 would total 20.2 billion roubles, the same as announced last year. Talyzin said the Kremlin also had decided to increase spending next year on medical services, education, pensions and social insurance schemes He said state expenditures in these fields would reach 171 billion roubles in 1988, or 3.5 billion roubles more than had originally been envisaged in the 1986-1990 Five-Year Plan.  
label 7	AMATIL PROPOSES TWO-FOR-FIVE BONUS SHARE ISSUE Amatil Ltd &lt;AMAA.S> said it proposes to make a two-for-five bonus issue out of its revaluation reserve to shareholders registered May 26. Shareholders will be asked to approve the issue and an increase in authorised capital to 175 mln shares from 125 mln at a general meeting on May 1, it said in a statement. The new shares will rank for dividends declared after October 31. Amatil, in which B.A.T. Industries Plc &lt;BTI.L> holds a 41 pct stake, said it does not expect to maintain its latest annual dividend rate of 29 cents a share on the enlarged capital.  
label 7	BOWATER 1986 PRETAX PROFITS RISE 15.6 MLN STG Shr 27.7p vs 20.7p Div 6.0p vs 5.5p making 10.0p vs 9.25p Turnover 1.34 billion stg vs 1.29 billion Pretax profit 48.0 mln vs 32.4 mln Tax 14.4 mln vs 6.9 mln Company name is Bowater Industries Plc &lt;BWTR.L> Trading profit 63.4 mln vs 45.1 mln Trading profit includes - Packaging and associated products 23.2 mln vs 14.2 mln Merchanting and services 18.4 mln vs 9.6 mln Tissue and timber products 9.0 mln vs 5.8 mln Interest debit 15.4 mln vs 12.7 mln Minority interests 7.0 mln debit vs 6.2 mln debit Extraordinary items 15.4 mln credit vs 11.9 mln debit  
label 7	BOWATER INDUSTRIES PROFIT EXCEED EXPECTATIONS Bowater Industries Plc &lt;BWTR.L> 1986 pretax profits of 48.0 mln stg exceeded market expectations of around 40 mln and pushed the company's shares up sharply to a high of 491p from 468p last night, dealers said. The shares later eased back to 481p. Bowater reported a 32.4 mln stg profit in 1985. The company said in a statement accompanying the results that the underlying trend showed improvement and it intended to expand further by developing existing businesses and seeking new opportunities. It added that it had appointed David Lyon, currently managing director of Redland Plc &lt;RDLD.L> as its new chief executive. Analysts noted that Bowater's profits of 18.9 mln stg from 13.2 mln previously had been given a boost by pension benefits of 4.5 mln stg. Profit from Australia and the Far East showed the greatest percentage rise, jumping 55.0 pct to 15.5 mln from 10.0 mln, while the profit from U.K. Operations rose 30.7 pct to 24.7 mln, and Europe, 42.9 pct to 11.0 mln.  
label 7	CITIBANK NORWAY UNIT LOSES SIX MLN CROWNS IN 1986 Citibank A/S &lt;CCI.N>, the Norwegian subsidiary of the U.S.-based bank, said it made a net loss of just over six mln crowns in 1986 -- although foreign bankers said they expect it to show 1987 profits after two lean years. Citibank's Oslo treasury head Bjoern Sejerstad told Reuters, Citibank, one of seven foreign bank subsidiaries operating in Norway, lost money because of restructuring for investment banking away from commercial banking and an economic slump in Norway following last year's plunge in oil prices. Foreign banks have been allowed to operate susbidiaries in Norway since 1985. Foreign banking analysts in Oslo said access to Norway's second-hand securities and equities markets, to be approved later this spring, and lower primary reserve requirements would make profit this year. Citibank lost 490,000 crowns in Norway in 1985, but Sejerstad said a profit was likely this year because of planned liberalisation and better economic performance, helped by a steadier oil price of around 18 dlrs a barrel. Earlier this year, Chase Manhattan Bank's &lt;CMB.N> subsidiary decided to stop foreign exchange trading after heavy losses and focus instead on fee-based merchant banking.  
label 7	VIEILLE MONTAGNE SAYS 1986 CONDITIONS UNFAVOURABLE A sharp fall in the dollar price of zinc and the depreciation of the U.S. Currency created unfavourable economic conditions for Vieille Montagne SA &lt;VMNB.BR> in 1986. It said in a statement that the two factors led to a squeeze on refining margins and an 18.24 pct fall in sales and services income despite an unchanged level of activity. Vieille Montagne, which is actively pursuing a restructuring program, reported a 198 mln franc net loss, after 187 mln francs in provisions for the closure of an electrolysis plant, compared with a 250 mln franc net profit in 1985.  
label 7	VIEILLE MONTAGNE REPORTS LOSS, DIVIDEND NIL 1986 Year Net loss after exceptional charges 198 mln francs vs profit 250 mln Exceptional provisions for closure of Viviez electrolysis Plant 187 mln francs vs exceptional gain 22 mln Sales and services 16.51 billion francs vs 20.20 billion Proposed net dividend on ordinary shares nil vs 110 francs Company's full name is Vieille Montagne SA &lt;VMNB.BR>.  
label 7	JARDINE MATHESON SAID IT SETS TWO-FOR-FIVE BONUS ISSUE REPLACING "B" SHARES JARDINE MATHESON SAID IT SETS TWO-FOR-FIVE BONUS ISSUE REPLACING "B" SHARES  
label 7	ISUZU PLANS NO INTERIM DIVIDEND Isuzu Motor Ltd &lt;ISUM.T> will pay no dividend for the first half year ending April 30, 1987, as the company is expected to mark a 12 billion yen parent company current loss in the first half due to slow exports caused by the yen's appreciation, a company spokesman said. The company has paid no dividend since the year ended October 31, 1983, when it paid five yen. It had a 4.44 billion yen current profit in the first half of 1985/86.  
label 7	JARDINE MATHESON REPLACES "B" SHARE BY BONUS ISSUE Jardine Matheson Holdings Ltd &lt;JARD.HK> said it will withdraw the previously announced four-for-one bonus issue of "B" shares and replace it by a two-for-five bonus issue of ordinary shares. A statement said the firm expects to pay total dividends for 1987 of not less than 40 cents a share on the expanded capital. Jardine Matheson decided to withdraw its issue because of a joint announcement earlier today by Ronald Li, chairman of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, and Securities Commissioner Ray Astin, that the listings of new "B" shares would be barred. The official announcement said this will include the proposal by Jardine Matheson. But the Jardine statement quoted chairman Simon Keswick as saying: "We continue to believe that the issuing of "B" shares would benefit shareholders, and regret that they will not be given the opportunity to vote on the matter at this stage." Keswick said the "B" share issue will benefit Jardine Matheson's shareholders by giving the firm flexibility to issue ordinary shares for expansion in future without diluting existing shareholders' voting rights. However, he added: "We certainly welcome (the Secretary for Monetary Affairs) David Nendick's referral of this very important matter to the Standing Committee on Company Law Reform and are hopeful that the process will lead to the development of general principles which can be embraced by all constituents of the Hong Kong market."  
label 7	ITALY'S LA FONDIARIA TO REPORT HIGHER 1986 PROFITS Italian insurer La Fondiaria Spa &lt;LFDI.MI> said it expects to report consolidated group profit in 1986 significantly higher than the 60 billion lire reported in 1985. The company said in a statement that parent company net profit last year will rise from the 72 billion lire reported in 1985. Consolidated group premiums totaled 1,700 billion lire in 1986 compared with 1,490 billion the previous year. Iniziativa Meta &lt;INZI.MI>, the financial services unit of Montedison Spa &lt;MONI.MI>, controls the largest single stake in Florence-based Fondiaria with 49.9 pct.  
