label 16	PAKISTAN COTTON CROP SEEN RECORD 7.6 MLN BALES Pakistan is likely to produce a record 7.6 mln bales (375 lbs each) of cotton from the current 1986/87 crop, exceeding a target of 7.2 mln bales, Food and Agriculture Minister Mohammad Ibrahim Baluch said. He told a Pakistan Central Cotton Committee meeting here the present was the third consecutive poroduction record-setting year and said the momentum would be accelerated in the future, the official APP news agency reported. Baluch said indications were that Pakistan is to attain a record cotton production of 7.6 mln bales, compared to the 1985/86 crop of 7.2 mln bales which also represented the target earlier set by authorities for this year's production.  
label 17	USDA TO PROPOSE FOREIGN MEAT INSPECTION RULE The U.S. Agriculture Department is preparing a proposal that would require all foreign meat products to be inspected at their point of arrival in the United States, a USDA official said. Donald Houston, administrator of USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service, FSIS, told a House Agriculture subcommittee USDA was developing a proposed change in regulations that would put an end to the current practice of permitting foreign meat products to be unloaded at one port and inspected at another port. Houston said the requirement would be phased in over several years to "avoid disruptions and economic hardship."  
label 18	FED'S HELLER SEES RETURN TO SLOWER MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH  FED'S HELLER SEES RETURN TO SLOWER MONEY SUPPLY GROWTH  
label 19	TECK STILL IN TALKS ON B.C. COPPER VENTURE &lt;Teck Corp> said it was continuing talks about joining a joint copper venture at Highland Valley, British Columbia, held by affiliates Cominco Ltd &lt;CLT> and &lt;Lornex Mining Corp>, but did not know when negotiations would be completed. Teck vice-president of administration John Guminski said in reply to a query that the talks had been "ongoing for a long time." He declined to speculate on the outcome. Cominco, 29.5 pct owned by a consortium led by Teck, is optimistic that the talks will soon be concluded, spokesman Don Townson told Reuters. "I think all partners are hopeful that the situation will be resolved," Cominco's Townson said. "We're optimistic that they will be concluded shortly," he added. Townson declined to specify when the talks might end. Cominco and Teck's 22 pct-owned Lornex agreed in January 1986 to form the joint venture, merging their Highland Valley copper operations. Cominco and Lornex share equally in control and management of the Highland Valley operations, while Cominco has a 55 pct share of production and Lornex receives 45 pct. For the six months following July 1, 1986, when the venture officially started production, Highland Valley had total ore milled of 22.6 mln short tons, grading an average of 0.41 pct copper, Townson said. Cominco's share of production was 43,000 short tons of copper contained in concentrate, 1,200 short tons of Molybdenum in concentrate, 340,000 ounces of silver and 800 ounces of gold, he said. A consortium, 50 pct owned by Teck and 25 pct each by MIM (Canada) Inc and Metallgesellschaft Canada Ltd, acquired its Cominco stake last year from Canadian Pacific Ltd &lt;CP>.  
label 20	SHOWA DENKO EXPORTS ALUMINIUM CASTING EQUIPMENT &lt;Showa Denko Ltd> said it is exporting aluminium billet casting equipment and technology to countries that have recently begun aluminium smelting. A company official said it won a 500 mln yen order to deliver 10 sets of casting equipment to Venezuela's Venalum by end-1987. He said it received an order for one set from Aluminium Bahrain B.S.C. Last year and expects further orders from the Bahrain smelter. Showa Denko withdrew from smelting last year but expects to increase its sales of equipment and technology, he said.  
label 21	SHANGHAI TYREb FACTORY TO RAISE 30 MLN U.S. DLRS Ta Chung Hua Rubber Factory of Shanghai will raise a 30 to 35 mln U.S. Dlr loan to expand and modernise its plant, arranger CCIC Finance Ltd said. The loan, to be lead managed by the Bank of China, is expected to mature in eight to nine years, but terms have not been finalized. The money will be used to import manufacturing equipment including technology transfer for the production of truck radial tyres. Part of the output will be exported. The expansion program is expected to cost a total 54 mln dlrs. The shortfall will be financed domestically.  
label 22	MALAYSIA SEEKS 42 BILLION YEN PIPELINE LOAN Malaysia has asked Japan for a 42 billion yen 25-year loan to finance the construction of gas pipelines from eastern Trengganu to southern Johor, the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (OECF) said. OECF's chief representative, Takashi Matsuya, told reporters the Japanese Government is appraising the loan. Another OECF official told Reuters Japan is likely to approve the loan because "it is technically and economically viable." If approved, the loan would carry a coupon rate of four pct, a grace period of seven years, Matsuya said. It would be disbursed over three years, he added. The pipeline contruction is the second phase of the Peninsular Gas Utilisation Project by Petronas, Malaysia's national oil company. The first phase was the supply of gas to households in and around the eastern oil town of Kertih.  
label 23	9-APR-1987 07:38:18.81 9-APR-1987 07:38:18.81 
