alzheimer's_disease	long noncoding rnas (lncrnas) are transcripts with low protein-coding potential but occupy a large part of transcriptional output. their roles include regulating gene expression at the epigenetic, transcriptional, and post-transcriptional level in cellular homeostasis. however, lncrna studies are still in their infancy and the functions of the vast majority of lncrna transcripts remain unknown. it is generally known that the function of the human nervous system largely relies on the precise regulation of gene expression. various studies have shown that lncrnas have a significant impact on normal neural development and on the development and progression of neurodegenerative diseases. in this review, we focused on recent studies associated with lncrnas in neurodegenerative diseases, including alzheimer 's disease (ad), parkinson 's disease (pd), huntington 's disease (hd), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (als), multiple system atrophy (msa), frontotemporal lobar degeneration (ftld), and glaucoma. glaucoma, caused by unexplained ganglion cell lesion and apoptosis, is now labeled as a chronic neurodegenerative disorder [1], and therefore, we discussed the association of lncrnas with glaucoma as well. we illustrate the role of some specific lncrnas, which may provide new insights into our understanding of the etiology and pathophysiology of the neurodegenerative diseases mentioned above.
parkinson's_disease	the death of dopaminergic neurons is a major pathological hallmark of parkinson 's disease (pd). elevated iron within the substantia nigra of the pd brain is thought to catalyze this neuronal death through hydroxyl radical-derived oxidative damage. removing this excess iron presents a potential therapeutic strategy for pd. seventeen derivatives of the non-toxic iron chelator desferrioxamine b (dfob) were prepared by the conjugation of adamantyl- (1-4,8-12), deconstructed adamantyl units (5-7), norborna(e)ne- (13-16) or bicyclo[2.2.2]octane-based (17) ancillary fragments to the terminal amine group. the range of experimental logp values of 1-17 (logp = 0.15-2.82) was greater than water soluble dfob (logp -2.29), with the increased hydrophobicity designed to improve cell membrane carriage to facilitate intracellular iron sequestration. the first activity screen showed compounds with methyl-substituted adamantyl (1-3), noradamantyl (5), or 1-pentylbicyclo[2.2.21octane (17) ancillary groups significantly rescued iron-mediated oxidative stress in confluent pd-relevant sk-n-be2-m17 neuroblastoma cells (m17 cells) exposed to 1,1'-dimethy1-4,4'-bipyridinium (paraquat, pq) or h2o2. the second dose-dependence screen ranked 1-3 and 17 as the top candidates (ec50 similar to 10 mu m) in the rescue of pq-treated m17 cells. the ancillary fragments of 1-3 and 17 clustered in a region defined by a close-to-zero dipole moment, logp values of 2-2.8 and a surface area:volume ratio of 0.60-0.61. results of iron leaching studies indicate that the compounds may be operating via mechanisms beyond solely removing intracellular iron. the dfob conjugates with methyl-substituted adamantyl ancillary groups (1-3) were the top and most consistent performers in this class of compound designed for pd. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
sprains_and_strains	objectives: (1) to characterize the demographics and external causes of pediatric sports injury-related visits (sirvs) to emergency departments (eds). (2) to analyze the effect of race/ethnicity and insurance on sirvs to eds. methods: a stratified random-sample cross-sectional survey of eds in the national hospital ambulatory medical care survey was conducted from 1997-2001; for patients younger than 19 years, we used all visits [n = 33,654; injury-related visits (irvs) = 13,496, sirvs = 29901. we examined both the external cause codes and the actual verbatim text of all irvs. national estimates of pediatric irvs were obtained using the assigned patient visit weights in the national hospital ambulatory medical care survey databases and sudaan 9.1 software (sas institute, inc., cary, nc). results: sports injuries resulted in 2.5 million visits annually, or 23% of ed irvs. male sex, older age (6-18 years), and white race/ethnicity are associated with higher rates of sirvs. cycling, basketball, playground injuries, and football resulted in the largest numbers of ed sirvs. leading diagnoses for sirvs included fractures and dislocations, sprains and strains, open wounds, and contusions. hispanic race/ethnicity was associated with lower rates of sirvs across all insurance types. after controlling for demographic factors and insurance, hispanic children were less likely to have an sirv than white children (odds ratio, 0.7; 95% confidence interval, 0.6-0.9). conclusions: sports and recreation are the leading causes of pediatric ed irvs. hispanic children, regardless of insurance status, had lower rates of sirvs than white children, which helps explain the lower rate of nonfatal irvs to eds among hispanic youth.
cancer	background: signal transduction inhibitors (stis) have considerably improved treatment of advanced/metastasized renal cell carcinoma (mrcc). most safety data for these drugs are derived from clinical trials. the purpose of this study was to evaluate which adverse drug reactions are documented during first-line treatments in routine clinical practice. patients and methods: the ongoing prospective german mrcc clinical registry is recruiting patients in 110 oncology and urology outpatient centers. data from the first 250 patients who had completed first-line treatment were analyzed regarding adverse drug reactions (adrs) documented in patients' medical records. results: patients were older than in clinical trials and had comorbidities. patients were treated with the stis sunitinib (61%), temsirolimus (14%), sorafenib (10%), or bevacizumab combined with interferon (6%). about 520 adrs were documented, of which 29% resulted in treatment modifications. the most frequently affected organ system was the gastrointestinal system. the most frequently documented adrs were mucositis/stomatitis (14%), fatigue (14%), diarrhea (12%), and nausea (12%). conclusions: in routine practice, mrcc first-line treatments using stis frequently lead to adrs partly necessitating treatment modifications. the pattern of reported adrs is similar to that reported in clinical trials, but frequencies of events differ, especially for symptoms of multifactorial origin that are not immediately associated with the treatment. these results indicate that perception and documentation of adverse reactions is different between clinical trials and routine practice, and that reviews of patients' medical records might not be the best method to assess safety in routine practice.
sports_injuries	background: the middle genicular artery (mga) is responsible for the blood supply to the cruciate ligaments and synovial tissue. traumatic sports injuries and surgical procedures (open and arthroscopic) can cause vascular damage. little attention has been devoted to establish safe parameters for the mga. purpose: to investigate the anatomy of the mga and its relation to the posterior structures of the knees, mainly the posterior capsule and femoral condyles, and to establish safe parameters to avoid harming the mga. study design: descriptive laboratory study. methods: dissection of the mga was performed in 16 fresh, unpaired adult human cadaveric knees with no macroscopic degenerative or traumatic changes and no previous surgeries. the specimens were meticulously evaluated with emphasis on preservation of the mga. the distances from the mga to the medial and lateral femoral condyles were measured. the mann-whitney test was used for statistical analysis. results: in all specimens, the mga emerged from the anterior aspect of the popliteal artery, distal to the superior genicular arteries, and had a short distal trajectory toward the posterior capsule where it entered proximal to the oblique popliteal ligament. the artery lay in the midportion between the condyles. the distance between the posterior aspect of the tibia and the point of entry of the mga into the posterior joint capsule was 23.8 +/- 7.3 mm (range, 14.72-35.68 mm). there was no correlation between an individual 's height and the distance of the entrance point of the mga into the posterior joint capsule to the posterior superior corner of the tibia. conclusion: the middle genicular artery lies in the midportion between the medial and lateral femoral condyles. clinical relevance: this knowledge is important for the preservation of the blood supply during posterior knee surgical procedures and to settle a secure distance between the posterior aspect of the tibia and the mga input. this could decrease and prevent iatrogenic vascular injury risk to the mga.
senior_health	the wilmington senior center developed a 3-year multidisciplinary health and wellness initiative entitled the time of your life to promote healthy aging for participants attending countywide senior centers. the purpose of this paper is to describe the development and implementation of the evaluation methodology and outcomes of this senior health and wellness project that consisted of 11 programs in total. long-term programming can present several challenges in both implementation and evaluation, but assessing outcomes is critical to documenting program value and accountability. participant-completed surveys and post-series focus groups were utilized as the evaluation tools. our findings indicate that the program 's objectives of increasing knowledge and motivating adoption or maintenance of a healthy lifestyle were met to varying degrees, while a third objective of assessing the usefulness of resources to inform health-related decisions was unable to be evaluated due to the cross-sectional nature of the data collection. post-series focus groups indicated that topics of most interest to seniors were money management, medications and staying mentally and physically fit. the evaluations showed that long-term programming, while challenging, can be a successful and sustainable format for senior health education.
multiple_sclerosis	guillain-barre syndrome (gbs) is an acute inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculopathy resulting in severe impairments of many body structures and functions with consequent limitations of activities and participation. the aim of our study was to evaluate rehabilitation outcome in these patients. forty-five (20 women, 25 men) with gbs patients who had completed primary comprehensive rehabilitation were included in the study. medical research council scale for muscle strength was used for assessment of lower-limb function. patients' activities were assessed using the functional independence measure and two walking tests (6 min and 10 m). the patients were also described using an adapted international classification of functioning, disability and health checklist. assessment was performed at admission and at discharge. clinically important and statistically significant improvements were found in all outcome measures. strong and significant correlations were found between the outcome measures. international classification of functioning, disability and health coding also clearly reflected the progress. improvement in patients' activities increased statistically significantly with time for up to 3 months of rehabilitation. the outcome was not related to the time interval from establishing the diagnosis to the start of rehabilitation. hence, multidisciplinary care for gbs patients is effective, because clinically important and statistically significant improvements regarding body functions and activities are achieved during relatively short inpatient rehabilitation. copyright (c) 2017 wolters kluwer health, inc. all rights reserved.
hepatitis_c	traditional vaccination approaches (e.g. live attenuated or killed microorganisms) are among the most effective means to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. these approaches, nevertheless, have failed to yield successful vaccines against many important pathogens. to overcome this problem, methods have been developed to identify microbial components, against which protective immune responses can be elicited. subunit antigens identified by these approaches enable the production of defined vaccines, with improved safety profiles. however, they are generally poorly immunogenic, necessitating their administration with potent immunostimulatory adjuvants. since few safe and effective adjuvants are currently used in vaccines approved for human use, with those available displaying poor potency, or an inability to stimulate the types of immune responses required for vaccines against specific diseases (e.g. cytotoxic lymphocytes (ctls) to treat cancers), the development of new vaccines will be aided by the availability of characterized platforms of new adjuvants, improving our capacity to rationally select adjuvants for different applications. one such approach, involves the addition of microbial components (pathogen-associated molecular patterns; pamps), that can stimulate strong immune responses, into subunit vaccine formulations. the conjugation of pamps to subunit antigens provides a means to greatly increase vaccine potency, by targeting immunostimulation and antigen to the same antigen presenting cell. thus, methods that enable the efficient, and inexpensive production of antigen-adjuvant fusions represent an exciting mean to improve immunity towards subunit antigens. herein we review four protein-based adjuvants (flagellin, bacterial lipoproteins, the extra domain a of fibronectin (eda), and heat shock proteins (hsps)), which can be genetically fused to antigens to enable recombinant production of antigen-adjuvant fusion proteins, with a focus on their mechanisms of action, structural or sequence requirements for activity, sequence modifications to enhance their activity or simplify production, adverse effects, and examples of vaccines in preclinical or human clinical trials. (c) 2017 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
weight_loss	weight loss surgery that mechanically restricts consumers' bodies to limit their food intake is booming in a context of globesity (world health organization). based on a foucauldian analysis, this study contends that self-transformative experiences arise from normalizing practices that the advocates of a repressive medical bio power overlook. this article problematizes the idea of resistance and normativity by emphasizing the existence of various forms of agency, not all of which are predicated on the term of resistance. the author proposes 'embodied transformation' as escaping docile embodiment versus embodied resistance (the negative view of subjectification as subjecting) to tell of normalizing practices that become a locus of discovery of creative potentialities within restrictive contexts. the study detects two types of agency. consumers' discourses are driven by a temporal or narrative structure vs. a spatial or connective form of becoming. (c) 2016 elsevier inc. all rights reserved.
low_testosterone	men with congestive heart failure (chf) have relatively low testosterone levels. several studies demonstrated that testosterone treatment increases cardiac output and reduces peripheral vascular resistance. however, the effects of testosterone on heart function, cardiomyocyte apoptosis and ventricular remodeling have not been fully elucidated. this study was conducted to investigate the effects of testosterone on heart function, cardiomyocyte apoptosis and ventricular remodeling in male rats post-myocardial infarction. a total of 86 male rats were randomly assigned to undergo ligation of the coronary artery (n=70) or pseudosurgery (n=16). after 6 weeks, a left ventricular ejection fraction (lvef) of 45% was defined as a successful model of chf. the model rats were randomly assigned to 3 groups, namely low-dose testosterone (tu), high-dose tu and placebo (pl) groups. after treatment for 12 weeks, the expression of several mrna transcripts in myocardial tissue was measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. immunofluorescence was used to measure myocardial caspase-3 expression. compared to the pl group, lvef was significantly improved in the tu treatment groups. moreover, the mrna expression of atrial natriuretic peptide, brain natriuretic peptide, matrix metalloproteinase-2 and sarcoendoplasmic reticulum ca2+-atpase 2a was significantly reduced, while the mrna expression of glycogen synthase kinase 3 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-2 was markedly increased in the tu groups. tu treatment also significantly reduced caspase-3 expression. therefore, different doses of tu suppressed ventricular remodeling and improved left ventricular function, reduced apoptosis and prevented mortality in a chf rat model.
fungal_infection	arginine is a semi-essential amino acid that affects physiological and biochemical functions. the cpa2 gene in yeast encodes a large subunit of arginine-specific carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (cps) and is involved in arginine biosynthesis. here, an ortholog of yeast cpa2 was identified in the rice blast fungus magnaporthe oryzae, and was named mocpa2. mocpa2 is an 1180-amino acid protein which contains an atp grasp domain and two cpsase domains. targeted deletion of mocpa2 supported its role in de novo arginine biosynthesis in m. oryzae as mutant phenotypes were complemented by arginine but not ornithine. the delta mocpa2 mutant exhibited defects in asexual development and pathogenicity but not appressorium formation. further examination revealed that the invasive hyphae of the delta mocpa2 mutant were restricted mainly to the primary infected cells. in addition, the delta mocpa2 mutant was unable to induce a plant defense response and had the ability to scavenge ros during pathogen-plant interactions. structure analysis revealed that the atp grasp domain and each cps domain were indispensable for the proper localization and full function of mocpa2. in summary, our results indicate that mocpa2 plays an important role in arginine biosynthesis, and affects growth, conidiogenesis, and pathogenicity. these results suggest that research into metabolism and processes that mediate amino acid synthesis are valuable for understanding m. oryzae pathogenesis.
diabetes	prolonged hyperglycemia activates the formation of advanced glycation end-products (ages). major dicarbonyl compounds such as methylglyoxal or glyoxal are found to be the main precursors of ages and n(epsilon)-(carboxymethyl)lysine (cml) found to be predominantly higher in the diabetic population. we hypothesized that phloretin from apple and [6]-gingerol from ginger inhibit formation of ages and suppress the receptor for advanced glycation end products (rage) via nuclear factor erythroid-2-related-factor-2 (nrf2)-dependent pathway. phloretin and [6]-gingerol were supplemented at two different doses to c57bl/6 mice on high fat diet or standard diet for a period of 17 weeks. phloretin or [6]-gingerol supplementation significantly reduced plasma glucose, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, ages and insulin levels. phloretin and [6]-gingerol also decreased the levels of ages and cml levels, via nrf2 pathway, enhancing gsh/gssg ratio, heme oxygenase-1 and glyoxalase 1 in liver tissue. these results suggest that phloretin and [6]-gingerol are potential dietary compounds that can alleviate diabetes-induced complications. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
parenting	although parenting is one of the most commonly studied predictors of child problem behavior, few studies have examined parenting as a multidimensional and dynamic construct. this study investigated different patterns of developmental trajectories of two parenting dimensions (harsh discipline [hd] and parental warmth [pw]) with a person-oriented approach and examined the associations between different parenting patterns and child externalizing problems and callous-unemotional traits. data were drawn from the combined high-risk control and normative sample (n = 753) of the fast track project. parent-reported hd and observer-reported pw from kindergarten to grade 2 were fit to growth mixture models. two subgroups were identified for hd (low decreasing, 83.0 %; high stable, 17.0 %) and pw (high increasing, 78.7 %; low increasing, 21.3 %). the majority of parents (67.0 %) demonstrated the low decreasing hd and high increasing pw pattern, while the prevalence of the high stable hd and low increasing pw pattern was the lowest (6.8 %). parenting satisfaction, parental depression, family socioeconomic status, and neighborhood safety predicted group memberships jointly defined by the two dimensions. children from the high stable hd and low increasing pw pattern showed the highest levels of externalizing problems in grades 4 and 5. children from the low decreasing hd and low increasing pw pattern showed the highest levels of callous-unemotional traits in grade 7. these findings demonstrate the utility and significance of a person-oriented approach to measuring parenting as a multidimensional and dynamic construct and reveal the interplay between hd and pw in terms of their influences on child developmental outcomes.
birth_control	endocrine-disrupting chemicals (edcs) in municipal effluents directly affect the sexual development and reproductive success of fishes, but indirect effects on invertebrate prey or fish predators through reduced predation or prey availability, respectively, are unknown. at the experimental lakes area in northwestern ontario, canada, a long-term, whole-lake experiment was conducted using a before-after-control-impact design to determine both direct and indirect effects of the synthetic oestrogen used in the birth control pill, 17 alpha-ethynyloestradiol (ee2). algal, microbial, zooplankton and benthic invertebrate communities showed no declines in abundance during three summers of ee2 additions (5-6 ng l(-1)), indicating no direct toxic effects. recruitment of fathead minnow (pimephales promelas) failed, leading to a near-extirpation of this species both 2 years during (young-of-year, yoy) and 2 years following (adults and yoy) ee2 additions. body condition of male lake trout (salvelinus namaycush) and male and female white sucker (catostomus commersonii) declined before changes in prey abundance, suggesting direct effects of ee2 on this endpoint. evidence of indirect effects of ee2 was also observed. increases in zooplankton, chaoborus, and emerging insects were observed after 2 or 3 years of ee2 additions, strongly suggesting indirect effects mediated through the reduced abundance of several small-bodied fishes. biomass of top predator lake trout declined by 23-42% during and after ee2 additions, most probably an indirect effect from the loss of its prey species, the fathead minnow and slimy sculpin (cottus cognatus). our results demonstrate that small-scale studies focusing solely on direct effects are likely to underestimate the true environmental impacts of oestrogens in municipal wastewaters and provide further evidence of the value of whole-ecosystem experiments for understanding indirect effects of edcs and other aquatic stressors.
heart_disease	background and aims: patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (fh) are often characterized by premature coronary artery disease (cad) with heterogeneity at onset. the aim of the present study was to investigate the associations of lipoprotein (a) [lp(a)] with the fh phenotype, genotype and roles of lp(a) in determining cad risk among patients with and without fh. methods: we enrolled 8050 patients undergoing coronary angiography, from our lipid clinic. clinical fh was diagnosed using the dutch lipid clinic network criteria. mutational analysis (ldlr, apob, pcsk9) in definite/probable fh was performed by target exome sequencing. results: lp(a) levels were increased, with a clinical fh diagnosis (unlikely, possible, definite/probable fh) independent of the patients status, with lp(a)-hyperlipoproteinemia [lp(a)-hlp] (median 517.70 vs. 570.98 vs. 604.65 mg/l, p < 0.001) or without (median 89.20 vs. 99.20 vs. 133.67 mg/l, p < 0.001). patients with lp(a)-hlp had a higher prevalence of definite/probable fh than those without (6.1% vs. 2.4%, p0.05). multivariate analysis showed that lp(a) and fh phenotype were both significant determinants in predicting the early onset and severity of cad. subsequently, patients with lp(a)-hlp in definite/probable fh increased significantly the cad risk (all p < 0.05). conclusions: lp(a) levels were higher in patients with fh phenotype than in those without, but no difference were found in fh patients of different mutated backgrounds. moreover, lp(a) and fh played a synergistic role in predicting the early onset and severity of cad. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
allergies	cannabis sativa (c.sativa) is well-known for its medicinal, industrial and recreational use. however, allergies in relation to cannabis sativa (c.sativa) are rarely reported. c. sativa is one of the common weeds found in pakistan and its pollen grains are common in spring and fall season. although categorized as an aeroallergen, there are limited number of reports regarding allergenic potential in c. sativa. therefore, the current study is aimed at exploring the ige-binding potential among the c.sativa pollen in local pollen allergic patients. initial screening of c. sativa sensitized individuals was carried out by dot blot from the sera of pollen allergic patients. proteins from the pollen grains were extracted and resolved on 10% gel. eight bands were visible on gel however only one protein fragment i.e. of 14kda size was found to bind to ige as analyzed through protein gel blot analysis. strong ige affinity of a 14 kda protein fragment from c. sativa pollen extract suggests its allergenic potential. further study is required to find the exact nature of this protein fragment.
menopause	objective: equol, an active metabolite possessing estrogen-like activity, is produced by the action of intestinal flora on soy isoflavones. there is an increasing evidence regarding its efficacy in the relief of menopausal symptoms, suppression of decreased bone mineral density, and lipid profile improvement. only those with equol-producing capacity, however, seem to benefit. thus, we examined the relationship between equol producer status and parameters associated with lifestyle-related diseases in women from their 20s to 80s. methods: this cross-sectional study was conducted among 743 women (21-89 y; average age: 52.5 +/- 11.8 y) who have undergone health screening at tokyo midtown medical center and given consent to participate in the study. the relationship between equol producer status and metabolic parameters was assessed. results: in our study, 236 women (32%) were equol producers. equol producers had significantly lower triglycerides and higher high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels compared with nonproducers. equol-producing women in their 50s showed significantly lower body fat level, visceral fat area, triglyceride levels, pulse wave velocity, uric acid levels, and high sensitivity c-reactive protein levels. in addition, women in their 60s showed significantly higher levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. in multivariate logistic regression, for women in their 50s, equol production was significantly associated with lower arterial stiffness and uric acid levels, and a high ratio of eicosapentaenoic acid to arachidonic acid, whereas it was significantly associated with lower urinary n-telopeptides in their 60s. conclusions: equol producer status was associated with favorable metabolic parameters, in women in the early phase postmenopause, with the transitional periods noted with declining intrinsic estrogen levels.
emergency_contraception	since the development of combined oral contraceptives over 50 years ago, significant innovations have occurred in the domain of the progestin. evolving knowledge of progestin mechanism of action and physiology has allowed for development of novel progestins with limited steroid receptor cross-reactivity, decreased side effect profiles, and pharmacokinetics optimized for modern delivery systems. this review summarizes current knowledge of progestin physiology, modern delivery systems, and developments of progestin agonists and antagonists for contraception.
skin_care	there are conditions in dermatology that cause severe cracking and flaking of the skin, representing a failure of normal desquamation. several hygroscopic substances that affect the moisturization of the stratum corneum have been identified for the treatment of scaling disorders. prominent among these are polyols and alpha hydroxy acids. we elaborated a new pharmaceutical product that combines the biomolecules glycerol and ammonium lactate. the aim of this study was to evaluate the physicochemical stability and rheologic properties of the new skin care preparation.
myelofibrosis	mutations in the calreticulin (calr) gene are found in the majority of janus kinase 2-negative myeloproliferative neoplasms mpn and, thus far, have exclusively been reported as acquired, somatic mutations. we assessed the mutational status of exon 9 of the calr gene in 2000 blood samples submitted to our centre and identified 12 subjects (0.6%) harbouring distinctive calr mutations, all with an allelic frequency of 50% and all involving indels occurring as multiples of 3 bp. buccal cell samples obtained from these patients confirmed the germline nature of the mutations. importantly, these germline mutations were not diagnostic of mpn. we thus report for the first time the identification and confirmation of germline mutations in calr distinct from those somatic mutations that define classical mpn. the finding of a non-standard calr mutation with an allelic frequency of 50% should raise suspicion of the possibility of a germline calr mutation and these cases investigated further.
hypothyroidism	the activity of the hypothalamus-pituitary-thyroid axis (hpt) is coordinated by hypophysiotropic thyrotropin releasing hormone (trh) neurons present in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. hypophysiotropic trh neurons act as energy sensors. trh controls the synthesis and release of thyrotropin, which activates the synthesis and secretion of thyroid hormones; in target tissues, transporters and deiodinases control their local availability. thyroid hormones regulate many functions, including energy homeostasis. this review discusses recent evidence that covers several aspects of trh role in hpt axis regulation. knowledge about the mechanisms of trh signaling has steadily increased. new transcription factors engaged in trh gene expression have been identified, and advances made on how they interact with signaling pathways and define the dynamics of trh neurons response to acute and/or long-term influences. albeit yet incomplete, the relationship of trh neurons activity with positive energy balance has emerged. the importance of tanycytes as a central relay for the feedback control of the axis, as well as for hpt responses to alterations in energy balance, and other stimuli has been reinforced. finally, some studies have started to shed light on the interference of prenatal and postnatal stress and nutrition on hptaxis programing, which have confirmed the axis susceptibility to early insults.
headache	objective: to investigate the common complications from the microsurgical treatment of large intracranial vestibular schwannoma (vs) via suboccipital retrosigmoid approach and to propose strategies for minimizing such complications. methods: we selected all patients with large unilateral vs from the collected database (1999-2013) who underwent microsurgical resection as their initial treatment for histopathologically confirmed vs. tumors larger than 30 chi 20 mm were defined as large. results: a total of 1167 patients with vs were included. gross total tumor resection was achieved in 1006 patients (86.2%). the mortality rate is 0.77%. the facial nerve was preserved anatomically in 1083 cases (92.8%), and the functional valuation of the facial nerve according to postoperative house-brackmann scale showed 423 patients (36.2%) in grades i-ii, 534 cases (45.8%) in grade iii, and 210 patients (18.0%) in grade iv-vi. the main short-term postoperative complication included new hearing loss (american institute of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery grade d) in 634 cases (54.3%), disequilibrium in 250 cases (21.4%), labial herpes in 127 cases (10.9%), meningitis in 115 (9.85%) and lower cranial nerve deficit in 77 cases (6.59%). follow-up data were available for 978 of the 1167 patients (83.8%). long-term complications include hearing loss (american institute of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery grade d) (75.8%), permanent facial paralysis (11.9%), facial numbness (10.9%), tinnitus (2.96%), chronic headache (2.25%), and taste disturbance (1.43%). conclusions: the key factors for reducing surgical complications include careful assessment of the functions of acoustic and facial nerves as well as a thorough understanding of anatomy via the retrosigmoid approach before operation, skillful microsurgical technique, and monitoring of multiple cranial nerves during resection.
overactive_bladder	introduction and hypothesisthe validity and reliability of measurement of urinary ngf as a diagnostic biomarker in women with lower urinary tract dysfunction (lutd) is uncertain. we aimed to evaluate both the diagnostic and discriminant validity, and the test-retest reliability of urinary ngf measurement in women with lutd. methodsurinary ngf was measured in women with lutd (n=205) and asymptomatic subjects (n=31). urinary ngf was assayed using an elisa method and normalized against urinary creatinine. ngf/creatinine ratios were compared between symptom subgroups using mann-whitney u test, and between different urodynamic diagnoses using the kruskal-wallis test. receiver operator characteristic (roc) analysis was employed to evaluate the diagnostic performance of urinary ngf. test-retest reliability of ngf measurement was assessed using intra-class correlation (icc). resultsurinary ngf was significantly but non-specifically increased in symptomatic patients when compared to controls (13.33 vs. 2.05ng ngf/g cr, p<0.001). on multivariate logistic regression ngf was a good predictor of patients having oab or not, however, the adjusted odds ratio only 1.006. roc analysis demonstrated poor discriminant ability between different symptomatic groups and urodynamic groups. using a cut off of 13.0ng ngf/g creatinine the test provides a sensitivity of 81%, but a specificity of only 39% for overactive bladder. the assays demonstrated good test-retest reliability with icc of 0.889. conclusionsalthough urinary ngf can be reliably assayed, and is increased in various lutds, it discriminates poorly between these disorders therefore has very limited potential as a biomarker. neurourol. urodynam. 35:944-948, 2016. (c) 2015 wiley periodicals, inc.
irritable_bowel_syndrome	introduction: colorectal cancer remains the second leading cause of cancer death in the united states, and new strategies to prevent, detect, and treat the disease are needed. the receptor, guanylate cyclase c (gucy2c), a tumor suppressor expressed by the intestinal epithelium, has emerged as a promising target. areas covered: this review outlines the role of gucy2c in tumorigenesis, and steps to translate gucy2c-targeting schemes to the clinic. endogenous gucy2c-activating ligands disappear early in tumorigenesis, silencing its signaling axis and enabling transformation. pre-clinical models support gucy2c ligand supplementation as a novel disease prevention paradigm. with the recent fda approval of the gucy2c ligand, linaclotide, and two more synthetic ligands in the pipeline, this strategy can be tested in human trials. in addition to primary tumor prevention, we also review immunotherapies targeting gucy2c expressed by metastatic lesions, and platforms using gucy2c as a biomarker for detection and patient staging. expert commentary: results of the first gucy2c targeting schemes in patients will become available in the coming years. the identification of gucy2c ligand loss as a requirement for colorectal tumorigenesis has the potential to change the treatment paradigm from an irreversible disease of genetic mutation, to a treatable disease of ligand insufficiency.
polycythemia_vera	polydatin (pd), a natural precursor of resveratrol, has a variety of biological activities, including anti-tumor effects. however, the underlying molecular mechanisms of the anti-cancer activity of pd has not been fully elucidated. the present study demonstrated that pd significantly inhibited the proliferation of the molt-4 leukemia cell line in a dose- and time-dependent manner by using cell counting kit-8 assay. pd also dose-dependently increased the apoptotic rate and caused cell cycle arrest in s phase in molt-4 cells, as revealed by flow cytometry. in addition, pd dose-dependently decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential and led to the generation of reactive oxygen species in molt-4 cells. western blot analysis revealed that the expression of anti-apoptotic protein b-cell lymphoma 2 ( bcl-2) was decreased, whereas that of pro-apoptotic protein bcl-2-associated x was increased by pd. furthermore, the expression of two cell cycle regulatory proteins, cyclin d1 and cyclin b1, was suppressed by pd. of note, the pro-apoptotic and cell cycle-inhibitory effects of pd were potentiated by janus kinase (jak2) inhibition. in conclusion, the results of the present study strongly suggested that pd is a promising therapeutic compound for the treatment of leukemia, particularly in combination with jak inhibitors.
