label 24	WORLD BANK TO SUPPORT SRI LANKA IF DEFICITS CUT The World Bank will support Sri Lanka's development program provided the country reduces its budget and current account deficits, the Ministry of Finance said. It said Bank President Barber Conable at a meeting with Sri Lanka's Finance Minister Ronnie de Mel in Washington also emphasised the need for structural adjustment and reform to the economy, battered by five years of separatist disturbances. Officials said Sri Lanka's budget deficit this year is expected to surpass the projected 28.7 billion rupees while defence spending, already up by two billion rupees from a targetted 10 billion, is also likely grow. The Ministry said de Mel asked the World Bank to give Sri Lanka 6.5 billion rupees balance of payments support.  
label 25	GLOBAL ECONOMIC SLOWDOWN RAISES NEW DEBT FEARS The global economy is expected to weaken this year, adding new worries to an already serious poverty outlook, economic analysts said. For finance ministers and central bankers attending this week's semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, the new figures released by the IMF add an additional concern. The Fund estimated world output would only grow by 2.7 pct this year, versus 2.9 pct last year, and 3.1 pct in 1985. In the industrial countries, Gross National Product, a measure of all goods and services, was expected to decline to 2.3 pct this year, compared with 2.4 pct in 1986, the IMF said. For the developing countries, the Gross Domestic Product, another measure of economic growth, was expected to fall to 3.0 pct from 3.5 pct last year. The new figures are considered a major disappointment to the poorest countries. They had hoped that new vitality in the industrial countries brought on by a sharp decline in oil prices would assist their economic recovery and help them cope with growing mounds of debt. IMF officials, discussing their outlook, said they believed the industrial country economies would move up to an annual growth rate of three pct by the end of the decade. Economic analysts and the IMF have been saying for some time that the ability to keep the debt crisis from turning into an economic rout rests on sustained economic growth. Since the debtor countries must look to the wealthier states for markets for their products as well as financial assistance, economic weakness in the developed nations' economies poses fundamental worries. Debtor countries, including the very poorest states, have only a few avenues open to them for earning foreign exchange, including the key one of exports. The U.S. economy, which is in its fifth year of expansion, has served as a mainstay for developing country exports, but it too is seen as being rather feeble this year, growing by only 2.3 pct, according to the IMF. For this reason and because of a high trade deficit, the United States has been pressuring Japan and West Germany to ignite their economies but with little apparent success. The IMF study also examines the course of the dollar and the curious lack of impact it has had on the U.S. trade deficit. Reagan administration officials have been saying that the impact is now beginning to show up, although it has been much slower than expected. The IMF observed in its World Economic Outlook that "it has to be recognized that exchange rate adjustments take time to work through to payments flows -- probably at least three years to get a resonably complete effect." The report added, however, "the adjustments may take even more time on this occasion." REUTER^M  
label 26	CANAM MANAC WINS 8.5 MLN DLR CONTRACT (The Canam Manac Group Inc) said its Canam Steel Works unit received a contract valued at 8.5 mln dlrs to supply steel trusses to (Canron Inc) for a new car plant in Ingersoll, Ontario. Canam Manac said it will produce the trusses at its Quebec and Ontario plants and delivery will be completed by August.  
label 27	WEATHER HURTS ITALIAN ORANGES - USDA REPORT Unfavorable weather conditions during the second week of March caused damage to oranges in the Calabria region in southern Italy, the U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Rome said in a field report. The report, dated April 3, said the region accounts for about 22,000 hectares of the Italian orange crop or about 26 pct of total production. However, orange production in the region for marketing year 1986/87 is forecast at 565,000 tonnes or 25 pct of the total Italian orange crop, it said. The report said trade contacts agree that about 15 pct of the orange output in Calabria was damaged by frost.  
label 28	U.S. MARCH RETAIL SALES CUT BY LATE EASTER U.S. retailers' lackluster March sales were due to a late Easter, according to analysts who expect a recovery in April. "Sales look soft because of the Easter shift, but underlying business is better than the numbers indicate," said Bear Stearns analyst Monroe Greenstein. Analysts generally average the sales results of March and April to account for the variation of Easter's occurance. This year, Easter is being observed on April 19, which is three weeks later than last year. Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said sales for March rose an unadjusted 2.5 to 3.0 pct, and a seasonally adjusted 5.5 pct to six pct, compared to an adjusted 5.7 pct last year. "The obvious question is whether these numbers indicate that the consumer activity is slowing, but it does not appear to be because liquidity and employment are rising," said analyst Jeff Edelman, analyst of Drexel Lambert and Burnham. Overall, analysts said first half sales are coming in according to expectations. Sales for all of 1987 are expected to rise about 5.5 pct to six pct, up a bit from 1986's rise. In March, sales of housewares, furniture and big ticket items were stronger than apparel sales, signaling to many analysts that apparel sales will be strong in April as the holiday nears. "Sales gains in home appliances and home fashions reflect a continuing strength in the housing market," said Edward Brennan, chairman of Sears Roebuck and Co &lt;S> which reported an overall sales gain of 4.2 pct. Brennan said sales of women's sportswear were also excellent. "Sears' total apparel sales was up only modestly, but even a modest improvement in apparel is a very good accomplishment due to the fact that most people will buy apparel in April," said C.J. Lawrence analysts Harry Mortner. J.C. Penney Co Inc &lt;JCP> and Dayton Hudson Corp &lt;DH> were among the weaker performers with comparable stores sales declining 1.5 pct and 4.9 pct, respectively. Penney's store and catalog sales declined 1.3 pct overall and Dayton Hudson's overall sales rose 4.8 pct. Penney chairman William Howell said, "Sales continued strong for catalog operations and, geographically, ranged from very active in the east to weak in the economically depressed southwest." "Penney's been shifting away from leisure time activity wear to other apparel lines, which yield higher profit margins, but are currently hurting sales," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns. Hudson chairman Kenneth Mackes cited the late Easter for the decline. Edelman of Drexel said that "Hudson had a tougher comparison because it had an exceptionally good 1986." Most analysts agreed that promotions are slightly lower than last year. "Retailers are not planning for much - inventories are being kept lean, markdowns are lower than last year, but sales are coming through anyway," said CJ Analyst Harry Mortner. Mortner said he expects profits in the first quarter to be better than he had originally expected in the beginning of the year. Most retailers report their first quarter in the middle of May. MARCH RETAIL SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS STORE       PCT        1987       1986 SEARS       4.2     2.6 BIL       2.5 BIL K MART      4.6     2.2 BIL       2.1 BIL JC PENNEY  (1.3)    1.1 BIL       1.1 BIL WAL-MART     32     1.1 BIL       855 MLN FEDERATED   4.9     934 MLN       891 MLN MAY         3.5     885 MLN       855 MLN DAYTON      4.8     792 MLN       756 MLN WOOLWORTH   0.2     591 MLN       590 MLN ZAYRE      12.7     522 MLN       464 MLN  
label 29	U.K. MARCH PRODUCER PRICES RISE 0.3 PCT The price index for sales of manufactured goods in the U.K. Rose a provisional, unadjusted 0.3 pct in March after an identical rise in February, Department of Trade and Industry figures show. The index for materials and fuel purchased by manufacturing industry fell a provisional and unadjusted 1.1 pct after a 1.7 pct fall in February. The Department said the year-on-year rise in producer prices in March was a provisional 3.7 pct, compared with a provisional 4.2 pct increase in the year to end-February. The index for output prices, non-seasonally adjusted, was put at a provisional 149.7 in March after 149.3 in February. The index for input prices, also not seasonally adjusted, was set at 128.2 in March after February's 129.6. The 1.1 pct fall in input prices between February and March was mainly due to a seasonal fall in industrial electricity costs and lower scheduled prices for petroleum products, the Department said. The Department said these falls were only partly offset by a rise in prices of home-produced food manufacturing materials. The seasonally adjusted index for input prices showed a 0.2 pct rise between February and March. Year-on-year, the input price index was down 0.7 pct in March after a 2.8 pct drop in February.  
label 30	ANDRIESSEN HINTS FATS/OIL TAX COULD GO TO SUMMIT European Community (EC) Agriculture Commissioner Frans Andriessen said his proposal for a tax of up to 330 European Currency Units per tonne on oils and fats was likely to go up for discussion at next week's summit meeting of EC leaders. EC farm ministers have been unable to agree the tax, one of the main items proposed by Andriessen for the 1987-88 farm price package. The tax, which would apply on both domestically-produced and imported oils and fats, has been fiercely opposed by the United States and developing countries' vegetable and marine oil producers.  
