label 8	GERMAN INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT SEEN STAGNATING The number of workers employed in the West German industrial sector stagnated in the last quarter of 1986 as a 50,000 increase in overall employment benefited only the services branch, the DIW economic institute said. A DIW report added the general downturn in the economy since last Autumn had had a negative effect on the willingness of firms to take on workers. It referred to a marked downturn in the number of workers taken on in the capital goods sector. New orders for manufacturing industry goods have mostly fallen or stagnated in recent months, but data for February finally showed a reversal of the trend, with a 1.9 pct rise.  
label 9	EC SUGAR TENDER HARD TO PREDICT - LONDON TRADE The outcome of today's European Community (EC) white sugar tender is extremely difficult to predict after last week's substantial award of 102,350 tonnes at the highest ever rebate of 46.864 European currency units (Ecus) per 100 kilos, traders said. Some said they believed the tonnage would probably be smaller, at around 60,000 tonnes, but declined to give a view on the likely restitution. Last week, the European Commission accepted 785,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention by operators protesting about low rebates. This might be a determining factor in today's result, they added.  
label 10	INDONESIAN INFLATION RATE 8.8 PCT IN 1986/87 Inflation was by 8.8 pct in Indonesia during fiscal 1986/87 to March 31, compared to 5.66 pct the previous year, Information Minister Harmoko said after a cabinet session to discuss the economic situation.  
label 11	STOLTENBERG SEES MOVES TO STRENGTHEN PARIS ACCORD West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said today's meetings of major industrial countries would look at ways of strengthening the Paris accord on stabilizing foreign exchange rates. Stoltenberg told journalists he saw no fundamental weakness of the February 22 agreement of the Group of Five countries and Canada to keep exchange rates near the then-current levels. But he declined to say what measures would be discussed ahead of a communique of the Group of Seven ministers later today. Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said the importance of the Paris agreement, also known as the Louvre accord, had been underestimated. Stoltenberg said there is greater agreement now among major countries than six months ago, at the time of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, marked by sharp discord between the United States and its major trading partners. "There is no fundamental weakness of the Paris accord," he said. "We will be looking at ways of strengthening it, but I do not want to discuss that here. Stoltenberg said the Louvre agreement was working despite a "slight firming" of the yen against the dollar. And Poehl noted that the dollar/mark parity was unchanged since February 22 without the Bundesbank having had to sell marks to support the dollar. "The Louvre agreement has been honored by the market," he said. Poehl said West Germany had lived up to its side of the bargain in Paris by preparing the way for tax cuts to be accelerated as a way of stimulating growth. Poehl said, however, that Japan had not yet fulfilled its pledges for economic stimulation. "And we will have to see if the United States is able to do what they promised in Paris on reducing the budget deficit -- and get it through Congress," he added. Stoltenberg reiterated West German concern about a further fall in the dollar, noting that the mark was up 85 pct against the dollar and nearly 20 pct on a trade-weighted basis. "You cannot expect that to go unnoticed in an economy. And it is not just a German problem, it is a European problem," he said.  
label 12	FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said. Economists expect the Fed to execute 2.0-2.5 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset pressures from the end of the two-week bank reserve maintenance period today. Some also look for a permanent reserve injection to offset seasonal pressures via an outright purchase of bills or coupons this afternoon. The Federal funds rate opened at 6-3/8 pct and remained at that level, up from yesterday's 6.17 pct average.  
label 13	COCOA EXPORTERS EXPECTED TO LIMIT SALES Major cocoa exporters are likely to limit sales in the weeks ahead in an effort to boost world prices, sources close to a meeting of the Cocoa Producers Alliance (CPA) said. The sources said the depressed world market had been one of the main topics discussed in a closed door meeting of the 11-member CPA which began on Monday. They said producers agreed that cutting sales would aid the buffer stock manager of a new international cocoa pact in his effort to support prices. Major cocoa producing and consuming nations agreed operation rules for the buffer stock at a meeting in London last month and the stock manager is expected to enter the market soon. Prices, under the weight of three successive cocoa surpluses, recently fell to the level at which the manager has to buy cocoa under stock rules. The buffer stock aims to keep prices within a pre-set range by buying when prices fall and selling when they rise. "The world's cocoa price at present is just not interesting," commented one delegate representing a major CPA producer. Another source said that with much of the 1986/87 (October-September) world cocoa crop sold, limiting sales in the near term concerns essentially next year's harvest. The sources noted, however, that the cocoa industry in Brazil, the world's number two producer, is in private hands. This means limiting sales is more difficult than in major West African producers, where sales are made or authorized by commodity marketing boards. The CPA includes the world's top three producers, Ivory Coast, Brazil and Ghana, and accounts for 80 pct of all output. The meeting here is due to end tomorrow evening.  
label 14	COLOMBIA BUSINESS ASKED TO DIVERSIFY FROM COFFEE A Colombia government trade official has urged the business community to aggressively diversify its activities and stop relying so heavily on coffee. Samuel Alberto Yohai, director of the Foreign Trade Institute, INCOMEX, said private businessmen should not become what he called "mental hostages" to coffee, traditionally Colombia's major export. The National Planning Department forecast that in 1987 coffee will account for only one-third of total exports, or about 1.5 billion dlrs, with oil and energy products making up another third and non-traditional exports the remainder.  
label 15	TURKEY CALLS FOR DIALOGUE TO SOLVE DISPUTE Turkey said today its disputes with Greece, including rights on the continental shelf in the Aegean Sea, should be solved through negotiations. A Foreign Ministry statement said the latest crisis between the two NATO members stemmed from the continental shelf dispute and an agreement on this issue would effect the security, economy and other rights of both countries. "As the issue is basicly political, a solution can only be found by bilateral negotiations," the statement said. Greece has repeatedly said the issue was legal and could be solved at the International Court of Justice. The two countries approached armed confrontation last month after Greece announced it planned oil exploration work in the Aegean and Turkey said it would also search for oil. A face-off was averted when Turkey confined its research to territorrial waters. "The latest crises created an historic opportunity to solve the disputes between the two countries," the Foreign Ministry statement said. Turkey's ambassador in Athens, Nazmi Akiman, was due to meet Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou today for the Greek reply to a message sent last week by Turkish Prime Minister Turgut Ozal. The contents of the message were not disclosed.  
