electric_motor	the power-on upshift control in automatic transmissions has a significant effect on the shift quality and is very complex. this paper aims to investigate the relationship between the limited motor torque control and the performance of the power-on upshift control in electric vehicles. first, a simplified model for an electric vehicle powertrain with a general two-speed automatic transmission was built. then, a power-on upshift control strategy was introduced into the powertrain model, with the aim of a constant output torque during power-on upshifts. the control strategy fully utilized the control flexibility of electric motors and specifically focused on the effects of the limited motor torque control during power-on upshifts. simulation results demonstrated that the proposed control strategy could significantly improve the shift quality of electric vehicles under mild driving conditions. however, the performance of the proposed control strategy under aggressive driving conditions was impaired by the limited motor torque control. an effective solution was proposed to improve the performance of the power-on upshift control under aggressive driving conditions. this work may be helpful to improve the shift quality of both electric vehicles and internal-combustion engine vehicles with automatic transmissions.
electric_motor	nowadays, increasingly stringent directives in the transport sector open interesting possibilities for the development of new traction technologies based on electrochemical storage and fuel cells, that are characterized by some limitations: the electrochemical storage systems have a limited range while fuel cells have not a proper response capability for very variable load demands. with the aim to realize a hybrid electric vehicle (hev) able to increase range of autonomy, cnr itae has designed a minibus (class b-category m3) having an electric motor of 40 kw powered by a polymeric fuel cell system of 20 kw and a lithium battery system of 70 kwh. the study is focused on evaluation of the hybrid propulsion system performance in different operating conditions. in particular, powertrain configuration and energy management strategies have been studied to optimize the efficiency of the hev, overcoming the limitations of these technologies, reducing energy losses and increasing range of the vehicle. tests on the road have been conducted and energy production and consumption of the vehicle have been logged. (c) 2016 hydrogen energy publications llc. published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
electric_motor	this paper reports on a study on the spatial characteristics of rain rates recorded in the basque region in northern spain. to perform this study a network of eighty raingauges spread throughout the region has been used. statistical parameters such as the spatial cross-correlation coefficient and the space-time cross-correlation coefficient were calculated and their evolution with separation distance studied. it is hoped that information reported could be useful in better understanding characteristics of rain and in developing countermeasures for terrestrial and satellite radio networks operating at frequencies above 10 ghz.
electric_motor	this paper describes a method used at schaeffler to analyze integrated hybrid transmission architectures with one electric motor. both the properties of their modes and aspects of mode transitions become clear using special visualization techniques. the method was implemented in matlab, and several transmission examples will be discussed. this leads to design aspects and requirements concerning the overall transmission layout and the components. examples of beneficial components from schaeffler are discussed. small shifting elements allow more space for the electric motor. clutches, brakes and cvt subsystems that are the right size for hybrid transmissions provide the required comfort. low-friction bearings and on-demand actuators contribute to increased range of electric driving.
electric_motor	the electron density of the topside ionosphere and the plasmasphere contributes essentially to the overall total electron content (tec) budget affecting global navigation satellite systems (gnss) signals. the plasmasphere can cause half or even more of the gnss range error budget due to ionospheric propagation errors. this paper presents a comparative study of different plasmasphere and topside ionosphere data aiming at establishing an appropriate database for plasmasphere modelling. we analyze electron density profiles along the geomagnetic field lines derived from the imager for magnetopause-to-aurora global exploration (image) satellite/radio plasma imager (rpi) records of remote plasma sounding with radio waves. we compare these rpi profiles with 2d reconstructions of the topside ionosphere and plasmasphere electron density derived from gnss based tec measurements onboard the challenging minisatellite payload (champ) satellite. most of the coincidences between image profiles and champ reconstructions are detected in the region with l-shell between 2 and 5. in general the champ reconstructed electron densities are below the image profile densities, with median of the champ minus image residuals around -588 cm(-3). additionally, a comparison is made with electron densities derived from passive radio wave rpi measurements onboard the image satellite. over the available 2001-2005 period of image measurements, the considered combined data from the active and passive rpi operations cover the region within a latitude range of +/- 60 degrees n, all longitudes, and an l-shell ranging from 1.2 to 15. in the coincidence regions (mainly 2 <= l <= 4), we check the agreement between available active and passive rpi data. the comparison shows that the measurements are well correlated, with a median residual of similar to 52 cm(-3). the rms and std values of the relative residuals are around 22% and 21% respectively. in summary, the results encourage the application of image rpi data for plasmasphere and plasmapause modeling. (c) 2016 cospar. published by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
digital_control	this paper presents a three-phase transformerless uninterruptible power supply (ups) with sinusoidal pulse width modulation (spwm) based division-summation (d-sigma) digital control. a transformerless ups controls the power flow between dc link and utility grid, as well as tracks the ac reference voltage. the proposed control law derived with d-sigma digital approach takes into account the effects of dc-link voltage fluctuation, grid-voltage distortion and inductance variation due to different current levels. thus, distortion of input current and filter inductor core size can be reduced significantly. however, circulating current may flow through the common ground between the input power factor corrector (pfc) and the output three-phase four-wire inverter. the derived control law based on spwm can suppress this circulating current and regulate output voltages tightly. experimental results measured from a three-phase transformerless ups have confirmed the analysis and discussion of the proposed control approach.
digital_control	in boost converters and other indirect energy transfer topologies, the fastest transient response usually does not coincide with the minimum possible output voltage deviation. this paper introduces a practical mixed-signal current programmed mode (cpm) controller that, compared to time-optimal solutions, provides a smaller deviation, lower current stress, and simpler controller implementation. to recover from transients, the controller passes through two phases. in the first phase, the inductor current is set in the proximity of its steady-state value, so that the initial transient-caused capacitor charging/discharging process is reversed. in the second phase, the voltage is gradually recovered. the controller implements a simple algorithm for setting up the inductor current and the output voltage peak/valley values during transients, based on the output current estimate, which is obtained through a self-tuning procedure. the operation of the controller is verified both through simulations and experimentally, with a boost-based 12 to 48 v, 100-w prototype, operating at 100-khz switching frequency. a comparison with a time-optimal controller shows that the introduced programmable-deviation system results in up to 1.9 times smaller voltage deviation while limiting component stress.
digital_control	this paper introduces a highly flexible multichannel output stage for battery-powered portable electric stimulators (ess), based on novel power converter architecture. compared with other solutions, the presented output stage for transcutaneous (surface) stimulations increases the number of applicable therapies, improves the battery operating time through reduced power consumption, and potentially results in more comfortable and shorter healing therapies. the new hybrid switch-mode power converter is a combination of flyback and switched-capacitor (sc) topologies. the flyback steps up the battery voltage and provides galvanic isolation. the following power-efficient sc stage replaces lossy linear current sources (css) of conventional solutions and produces pulses with a much higher slew rate, reducing the pulse energy needed to cause the stimulus. the sc also inherently produces pulses with zero-net charge, eliminating bulky blocking capacitors and/or dedicated discharging circuits. the regulation of the amplitudes of the pulses is performed with a new digital voltage-programmed current mode controller, forcing the output of the sc stage to behave as a cs. the flexible digital controller allows for creation of various types of pulses and also features several levels of patient protection. an experimental prototype of the output stage has undergone proof of principle tests with able-bodied individuals. the results show that the new output stage produces pulses with a 1-ma/ns slew rate, about two orders of magnitude higher than the other known solutions. the trials show that the faster slew rate pulses generate the same muscle contraction with 34% lower amplitudes, reducing energy consumption by 55%, allowing longer battery life of portable es applications.
digital_control	a rapid prototyping methodology for digital controllers is presented in this paper. its main application is in the development, debugging, and test of microgrid inverter controllers. to fulfill the application requirements, these systems are characterized by complex multilayer architectures, extending from pulse width modulation (pwm) and current control loops up to global optimization and high level communication functions. the complexity and the wide variability of the different layer implementations make digital control mandatory. however, developing so complex digital controllers on conventional hardware platforms, like digital signal processors (dsps) or even fpgas, is not the most practical choice. this paper shows how multiplatform control devices, where software configurable dsp functions and programmable logic circuits are efficiently combined, represent the optimal solution for this field of application. furthermore, this paper proposes hardware-in-the-loop real-time simulation as an effective means of developing and debugging complex hardware and software codesigned controllers. a case study is presented and used to illustrate the different design and test phases, from initial concept and numerical simulation to final experimental verification.
digital_control	the aim of this paper is to present a superior transient response of a digital peak current mode dc-dc converter in order to address input voltage fluctuation. in the dc power feeding system, a quick response is important for not only load fluctuation but also input voltage fluctuation. since the proposed peak current mode control method can detect the peak current in real time, the transient response can improve compared with the conventional digital voltage mode pid control. as a result, the convergence time and undershoot of output voltage is suppressed by more than 50%.
microcontroller	this work presents the design, fabrication, and characterization of a passive printed radiofrequency identification tag in the ultra-high-frequency band with multiple optical sensing capabilities. this tag includes five photodiodes to cover a wide spectral range from near-infrared to visible and ultraviolet spectral regions. the tag antenna and circuit connections have been screen-printed on a flexible polymeric substrate. an ultra-low-power microcontroller-based switch has been included to measure the five magnitudes issuing from the optical sensors, providing a spectral fingerprint of the incident electromagnetic radiation from ultraviolet to infrared, without requiring energy from a battery. the normalization procedure has been designed applying illuminants, and the entire system was tested by measuring cards from a colour chart and sensing fruit ripening.
microcontroller	we present a high-voltage cmos neural-interface chip for a multichannel vestibular prosthesis (mvp) that measures head motion and modulates vestibular nerve activity to restore vision- and posture-stabilizing reflexes. this application specific integrated circuit neural interface (asic-ni) chip was designed to work with a commercially available microcontroller, which controls the asic-ni via a fast parallel interface to deliver biphasic stimulation pulses with 9-bit programmable current amplitude via 16 stimulation channels. the chip was fabricated in the onsemi c5 0.5 micron, high-voltage cmos process and can accommodate compliance voltages up to 12 v, stimulating vestibular nerve branches using biphasic current pulses up to 1.45 +/- 0.06 ma with durations as short as 10 mu s/phase. the asic-ni includes a dedicated digital-to-analog converter for each channel, enabling it to perform complex multipolar stimulation. the asic-ni replaces discrete components that cover nearly half of the 2nd generation mvp (mvp2) printed circuit board, reducing the mvp system size by 48% and power consumption by 17%. physiological tests of the asic-based mvp system (mvp2a) in a rhesus monkey produced reflexive eye movement responses to prosthetic stimulation similar to those observed when using the mvp2. sinusoidal modulation of stimulus pulse rate from 68-130 pulses per second at frequencies from 0.1 to 5 hz elicited appropriately-directed slow phase eye velocities ranging in amplitude from 1.9-16.7 degrees/s for the mvp2 and 2.0-14.27s for the mvp2a. the eye velocities evoked by mvp2 and mvp2a showed no significant difference (t-test, p = 0.34), suggesting that the mvp2a achieves performance at least as good as the larger mvp2.
microcontroller	numerous simple impedance analysers based on the microcontroller (mu c) and dedicated impedance converter integrated circuits (ic) were reported recently. in many applications sophisticated analogue circuitry has to be appended to enhance the measurement possibilities or to circumvent the limitations. in this paper the impedance analyser imp-stm32 based solely on the mu c and general purpose operational and instrumentation amplifiers is presented. it uses the internal dac and adcs in the mu c to generate the excitation and to measure the response of the measured object. it also uses the external analogue circuits to condition the excitation signal and measure voltage and current. the magnitudes and phase shifts of voltage and current are evaluated using the three parameter sine fitting algorithm allowing for fast low-frequency impedance measurements. the calibration procedure of completed device is presented as well as the tests of its accuracy. the device allowed for measurements at frequency range between 1 mhz and 100 khz in 1 omega to 1 g omega impedance range with 1% accuracy. imp-stm32 was also compared to the agilent 4294a precision impedance analyser. in the middle of the impedance ranges (1 omega to 300 k omega) the discrepancies between the two were less than 0.2%. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
microcontroller	in this paper we proposed multi-stage algorithm of small wind turbine power plant control when it supports maximum extracted power independently on traditional tip speed ratio using the wind speed. we made measurements of wind turbine parameters on urban and prairie territories, showed the necessity of power controlling the turbine, and vindicated the efficiency of control of small wind turbines in urban regions. we also formulated the conditions and structure of microprocessor operation, described the algorithm of wind turbine power control showing the possible situations and states. each state is described with the corresponding microcontroller response and activity. we showed the advantages of pulse width modulation (pwm) is converting the electric values.
microcontroller	we present an electrostatically driven four-electrode micropump that operates with peristaltic motion. the working fluid is gas. in particular, we focus on the characteristics of the micropump as a function of the various actuating signals for four flexible electrodes. the micropump operated between 60 v and 120v with a customized pulse signal. whereas the maximum flow rate using a basic actuating signal was approximately 38 mu l/min at 90v and 15 hz, the maximum flow rate using an optimized actuating signal was approximately 136 mu l/min at 90 v and 15 hz. this is an increase of approximately 3.6 times the minimum flow rate. various actuating signals were generated from a microcontroller unit (mcu) equipped with a logic circuit and a high-voltage dc power supply and function generator. the minimum flow rate occurs with a four pumping sequence with three electrodes. however, the maximum flow rate occurs when these four electrodes participate sequentially. the proposed micropump consists of only a single chamber and a flexible membrane with four electrodes. the chamber is divided into smaller cells with the embedded electrodes controlled by a custom-made logic circuit that generates various phase-sequencing actuation signals. this micropump is applicable for gas chromatography. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
electrical_network	when a magnetic field is applied to type ii superconductors, such as yba2cu3o7.delta (ybco), the flux quanta penetrate the material as a regular array of vortices. however when transport currents are applied, they act to move these vortices, thus lowers the critical current density (j(r)) as well as destroying superconductivity. the development of microstructures made of ybco materials has enabled engineers to increase the critical current density, within type ii materials by introducing flux pinning centres into the material. the microstnicture and flux pinning properties of yba2cu3o7.delta system with varying levels (0-5 wt. a) of a nano perovskite ceramic insulator; yba2hfo5.5 addition was studied in detail. orthorhombic yba2cu3o7-delta powder was prepared through conventional solid state route and a modified combustion method was used for synthesizing nanocrystalline yba2hfo5.5. the structure and microstnicture of the samples examined by x.-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy showed that yba2hfo5.5 5 and ybco remained unreacted even at higher processing temperature without deteriorating the superconducting properties. the scanning electron microscope image shows that yba(2)hfo(5.5) forms an electrical-network between grains. these observations suggest that the yba(2)hfo(5.5) addition to the y-123-compounds improve the electrical connection between superconducting grains and substantial improvements in the relative electrical transport properties of the composites. the variation of sintering temperature, density, critical transition temperature (t-c) and magnetic field dependence of critical current density (j(r)) of yba2cu3o7,6 having different proportions of yba2hfo5.5 in the matrix were also studied in detail. it is found that the addition of these elements considerably enhances the flux pinning strength of the system, and there is also an increase of critical temperature (tc) and critical current density (jr) up to an optimum value of 8.76 x 10(4) a/cm(2)for a concentration of 2 wt a addition of nano yba2hfo5.5; . the enhancement of the critical current density in the yba2cu3o7-delta,6 - yba2hfo5.5 samples is attributed to the sustained formation of the insulating and non-reacting yba2hf055 phase acting as pinning center. the addition of yba2hfo5.5 in yba2cu3o7-delta,6 bulk superconductor also enhances the pinning force density from 3 x 10(6) n/m(3) to 69.6 x l0(6)n/m(3) at 77 k.
electrical_network	this paper deals with the transfer of data by power-line communication (plc) on a pulse width modulated (pwm) energy network. target applications concern the adjustable speed drive for industrial infrastructures. in order to implement an efficient communication solution, it is necessary to have a model of the communication channel to determine certain parameters like bandwidth, carrier frequency and modulation formats. the originality of our work is the methodology used to determine the channel model. the first results of simulation and experimental validation are presented in this paper.
electrical_network	in this paper the reliability of ac contactor is studied. in the present scenario where the dependency on electrical energy has increased immensely, there is a huge pressure on power system network for its reliable operation. under this condition failure of any component in electrical network can cause huge loss of economy and continuity of supply. this paper is focused towards estimating the remaining useful life of the contactors through its characteristics parameter i.e. contact resistance and contact compression. sampies of rating 9a, 440v, 230v (coil voltage) underwent electrical endurance test and during the testing, behavior of these two characteristic parameters is studied in accordance to find the relation between contactors life, contact resistance and contact compression. the results obtained helped in predicting the health or remaining life of contactor. hence, based on experimental data reliability of the system is estimated using reliasoft software.
electrical_network	the research is aimed at developing algorithms for the construction of automated systems to control active components of the electrical network. the construction of automated systems intended for the control of electric power systems requires high-speed mathematical tools. the method applied in the research to describe the object of control is based on the universal approach to the mathematical modelling of nonlinear dynamic system of a black-box type represented by the volterra polynomials of the n-th degree. this makes it possible for the input and output characteristics of the object to obtain an adequate and fast mathematical description. results of the computational experiment demonstrate the applicability of the mathematical tool to the control of active components of the intelligent power system.
electrical_network	silicon is a remarkable candidate for lithium-ion battery anodes, due to the highest theoretical specific capacity, low working potential, and abundance on earth. however, the volume of si changes approximate to 300% during the lithiation-delithiation cycling, leading to pulverization and poor electrical contact between si and the current collector, resulting in fast fading capacity. to overcome these problems, we develop a novel free-standing anode by encapsulating si nanoparticles into a lightweight, flexible, and conductive graphene network by utilizing a facile freeze-drying strategy. the si nanoparticles are tightly anchored on the ultrathin and flexible graphene sheets, which can serve as mechanical support, electrical network, and buffer layer for si. this free-standing aerogel exhibits superior electrochemical performance, and the specific capacity is 617 mahg(-1) after 50 cycles at a current density of 0.8 ag-1, 4 times that of a traditional si electrode on cu foil fabricated by a typical slurry method.
electricity	china is quickly installing advanced metering infrastructure (ami), which could provide tremendous opportunities in developing and utilizing demand response resources. demand response may potentially create a profitable industry and contribute to efficiency improvement, cost reduction, and pollution mitigation of the entire electricity sector. however, china lags behind the developed world in utilizing demand response. institutional barriers, including the lack of competitive electricity market and the resistance by the state grid corporations, are preventing the commercialization of demand response. in order to fully realize the potential of smart grid, china needs to push forward the reforms toward establishing an open access electricity market so the pollution-free demand response resources may compete with power generators on leveled field. (c) 2015 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
electricity	this paper aims to propose a methodology for optimization of solar chimney power plants taking into account the techno-economic parameters. the indicator used for optimization is the comparison between the actual achieved simple payback period for the design and the minimum possible (optimum) simple payback period as a reference. an optimization model was executed for different twelve designs in the range 5-200 mw to cover reinforced concrete chimney, sloped collector, and floating chimney. the height of the chimney was optimized and the associated collector area was calculated accordingly. relationships between payback periods, electricity price, and the peak power capacity of each power plant were developed. the resulted payback periods for the floating chimney power plants were the shortest compared to the other studied designs. for a solar chimney power plant with 100 mw at electricity price 0.10 usd/kwh, the simple payback period for the reference case was 4.29 years for floating chimney design compared to 23.47 and 16.88 years for reinforced concrete chimney and sloped collector design, respectively. after design optimization for 100 mw power plant of each of reinforced concrete, sloped collector, and floating chimney, a save of 19.63, 2.22, and 2.24 million usd, respectively from the initial cost of the reference case is achieved. sensitivity analysis was conducted in this study to evaluate the impacts of varied running cost, solar radiation, and electricity price on the payback periods of solar chimney power plant. floating chimney design is still performing after applying the highest ratio of annual running cost to the annual revenue. the sensitivity analysis showed that at the same solar radiation and electricity price, the simple payback period for 200 mw with sloped collector design would almost have the double simple payback period for 5 mw with floating chimney design. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
electricity	conventional time series forecast models can hardly develop the inherent rules of complex non-linear dynamic systems because the strict assumptions they need cannot always be met in reality, whereas fuzzy time series (fts) techniques can be used even the records of times series have uncertainty and instability since they do not need strict assumptions. in previous study of fts, the process of aggregating the past observations and assigning proper weights of fuzzy logical relationship groups are ignored, which may lead to poor forecasting accuracy since they are important aspects in time series prediction and analysis where determination of future trends depends only on past observations. in this paper, a novel high-order fts model is constructed to make time series forecasting. specifically, by applying the harmony search intelligence algorithm, the optimal lengths of intervals are tuned. moreover, regularly increasing monotonic quantifiers are employed on fuzzy sets to obtain the weights of ordered weighted aggregation. simultaneously, the weights of right-hand side of fuzzy logical relationship groups are explored to compensate the presence of bias in the prediction. in the part of empirical analysis, the developed model was applied to predict three well-known time series: numbers of enrollment of alabama university, taiex and electricity load demand of new south wales and the results obtained were compared with several counterparts, including some old and recently developed models. experimental results demonstrate that the developed model cannot only achieve higher accuracy of prediction, but also capture the fuzzy features and characters. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
electricity	this work describes the co-fermentation to the simultaneous production of rhamnolipids and ethanol from exploded sugarcane bagasse (esb) using saccharomyces cerevisiae, pseudomonas aeruginosa and crude enzyme complexes (cecs). the cecs were produced by aspergillus niger in solid-state fermentation (ssf), using different levels of esb, rice bran (rb) and corn cob (cc) as substrates. the best results for rhamnolipids (9.1 g/l, emulsification index of 84%, surface tension of 35 mn/m) and ethanol (8.4 g/l) were obtained after 86 h of fermentation of esb (250 g/l, 30 degrees c), using cec from ssf of esb (20% wt/wt), rb (30% wt/wt) and water (50% wt/wt). it was also observed that the fermented bagasse had approximately the same calorific value of a bagasse in nature and could be used as a potential source of energy. these findings suggest that co-fermentation using p. aeruginosa, s. cerevisiae and esb can be used in the successful co-production of rhamnolipids and ethanol, with the recovery of energy present in the fermented bagasse. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
electricity	energy management strategies (emss) are critical for the improvement of fuel economy of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (phevs). however, conventional emss hardly consider the influence of uphill terrain on the fuel economy and battery life, leaving vehicles with insufficient battery power for continuous uphill terrains. hence, in this study, an optimal control strategy for a phev based on the road grade information is proposed. the target state of charge (soc) is estimated based on the road grade information as well as the predicted driving cycle on uphill road obtained from the gps/gis system. furthermore, the trajectory of the soc is preplanned to ensure sufficient electricity for the uphill terrain in the charge depleting (cd) and charge sustaining (cs) modes. the genetic algorithm is applied to optimize the parameters of the control strategy to maintain the soc of battery in the cd mode. the pre-charge mode is designed to charge the battery in the cs mode from a reasonable distance before the uphill terrain. finally, the simulation model of the powertrain system for the phev is established using matlab/simulink platform. the results show that the proposed control strategy based on road-grade information helps successfully achieve better fuel economy and longer battery life.
operational_amplifier	a low voltage and low power operational amplifier (opamp) using process, temperature insensitive current source has been presented. the design methodology of the addition based current source and the opamp implementation using this current source is presented. the spice simulations are carried out in gpdk 90 nm technology at 0.6 v supply. the results of addition based current source opamp are compared with the mosfet current source opamp. the proposed opamp shows better gain of 80.6db, gbw of 3mhz and low power consumption of 54 uw.
operational_amplifier	we propose an analog front-end integrated circuit (ic) design for a readout ic (roic), which applies a fixed-voltage-bias sensing method with a capacitance transimpedance amplifier (ctia) to an input stage in order to simplify the circuit structure of the roic and the ir sensor characteristic control. for a sample-and-hold stage, in order to display and control a signal detected by the ir sensor using a 2-d focal plane array, a differential delta sampling circuit is proposed, which effectively removes the fixed pattern noise. in addition, a two-stage variable-gain amplifier equipped with a rail-to-rail fully differential operational amplifier is applied to the roic to achieve high voltage sensitivity. the output characteristic of the proposed device is 30.84 mv/k and the linearity error rate is less than 0.07%. after checking the performance of the roic using an hspice simulation, the chip is manufactured and measured using the united microelectronics corporation japan 0.35-mu m standard cmos process to confirm that the simulation results from the actual design are in close agreement with the measurement results.
operational_amplifier	this paper presents a new memristor emulator circuit. the circuit is built around the current-feedback operational-amplifier and exploits the nonlinear transfer characteristic of the operational transconductance amplifier to provide continuous change in the memresistance. this is in contrast with many of the available memristor emulators which can provide only binary memresistance levels. moreover, the emulator enjoys a low impedance input and is suitable for current driving rather than voltage driving. the functionality of the proposed memristor emulator is confirmed by implementing a well-known reactance-less multivibrator circuit. experimentally obtained results are included. (c) 2014 elsevier gmbh. all rights reserved.
operational_amplifier	a systematic method is proposed to approach complete fault coverage for catastrophic faults in analog circuits. in the proposed method, a fault propagation graph is first created from the circuit netlist. standard graph theory techniques are then employed to identify a minimal set of observation points (mop) such that, by monitoring these points, complete fault coverage can be achieved, i.e., all potential catastrophic faults of the circuit can be detected theoretically. the developed method is valuable because of the increasingly critical quality requirements for modern ic applications and the lack of existing methods that can achieve sub-ppm test escapes in the state-of-the-art. a widely used benchmark circuit, a cmos operational amplifier, is utilized to demonstrate and validate the method. simulation results show that all catastrophic faults can be detected by monitoring the identified mop.
operational_amplifier	we have observed a quench of lasing at an exceptional point in an electronic circuit system by applying an asymmetric gain in coupled oscillators. because of the analogy between an oscillation in a laser and an oscillation in an operational amplifier, the oscillation stops when the system hits an exceptional point. this phenomenon is also theoretically investigated.
analog_signal_processing	with an increasing number of wind turbines being erected offshore, there is a need for cost-effective, predictive, and proactive maintenance. a large fraction of wind turbine downtime is due to bearing failures, particularly in the generator and gearbox. one way of assessing impending problems is to install vibration sensors in key positions on these subassemblies. such equipment can be costly and requires sophisticated software for analysis of the data. an alternative approach, which does not require extra sensors, is investigated in this paper. this involves monitoring the power output of a variable-speed wind turbine generator and processing the data using a wavelet in order to extract the strength of particular frequency components, characteristic of faults. this has been done for doubly fed induction generators (dfigs), commonly used in modern variable-speed wind turbines. the technique is first validated on a test rig under controlled fault conditions and then is applied to two operational wind turbine dfigs where generator shaft misalignment was detected. for one of these turbines, the technique detected a problem 3 months before a bearing failure was recorded.
analog_signal_processing	a procedure based on the multiple expansion of the brain electrical generator is used here to derive analytical expressions for the transfer matrix necessary to obtain potentials referenced to infinity. its features include: avoidance of computations that involve a large number of discrete dipole sources; faster evaluation compared to the use of the dipole layer; and a transparency showing the parameters that constitute the transfer matrix. the paper also proposes the construction of the standardization matrix without the use of the general inverse of a non-symmetrical matrix.
analog_signal_processing	piezoelectric materials have long been used as sensors and actuators; however their use as electrical generators is less established. such materials are capable of converting mechanical vibration energy into electrical energy, but developing piezoelectric generators is challenging because of their poor source characteristics (high voltage, low current, high impedance) and relatively low power output. this paper presents a theoretical analysis and design of piezoelectric power generation in low frequency applications (2 to 5 hz), where the design method is obtained by a piezoelectric equivalent circuit and an analysis of internal stress. some important considerations in designing such generators are explored, including of parameter estimation, load matching, efficiency, energy conversion, and energy storage. a prototype hand-shaking piezoelectric generator is proposed, which can be used to drive a wireless-switch device (the driving voltage being 5v). experimental results show that the average electrical power in the hand-shaking piezoelectric generator can be approximated to 48.5 mu w.
analog_signal_processing	the 4 pi beta(ls)-gamma coincidence counting system of kriss (korea research institute of standards and science) has been operated in the analog signal-processing mode. we develop and implement a digital sampling method using a commercially available analog to digital converter. in the implementation, we digitize the amplified pulse trains generated from three detector channels and determine the locations and amplitudes of peaks using a peak detection algorithm. we develop offline analysis routines to process the recorded locations and amplitudes for activity determinations by means of the efficiency-extrapolation method. in the activity determinations we can make corrections for the effects of out-of-channel events and correlation between data points. we validate the digital sampling method by measuring co-60 activity and comparing the measurement results with those obtained in the analog mode. the digital method is capable of facilitating the activity standardization of radionuclides with very short half-lives. (c) 2010 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
analog_signal_processing	in this paper the analysis of the dynamic behavior of a variable speed wind turbine (vswt) is presented. comparison between variable speed and constant speed (cs) mode of operation is also performed the examined wind turbine is equipped with a dual pwm voltage source converter cascade and connected to an electrical network represented by the thevenin equivalent. conventional scaler control is applied to the electrical generator, employing the constant v/f principle. furthermore, the grid side inverter is assumed capable of regulating its output reactive power in order to maintain the voltage within permissible variations. the objective is to point out some of the advantages of the variable speed (vs) operation, such as the improved output power quality, the decrease of the mechanical stresses and the capability of controlling the voltage of the local grid.
state_space_representation	one- and two-dimensional mems scanning mirrors for resonant or quasi-stationary beam deflection are primarily known as tiny micromirror devices with aperture sizes up to a few millimeters and usually address low power applications in high volume markets, e.g. laser beam scanning pico-projectors or gesture recognition systems. in contrast, recently reported vacuum packaged mems scanners feature mirror diameters up to 20 mm and integrated high-reflectivity dielectric coatings. these mirrors enable mems based scanning for applications that require large apertures due to optical constraints like 3d sensing or microscopy as well as for high power laser applications like laser phosphor displays, automotive lighting and displays, 3d printing and general laser material processing. this work presents modelling, control design and experimental characterization of gimbal-less mems mirrors with large aperture size. as an example a resonant biaxial quadpod scanner with 7 mm mirror diameter and four integrated pzt (lead zirconate titanate) actuators is analyzed. the finite element method (fem) model developed and computed in comsol multiphysics (r) is used for calculating the eigenmodes of the mirror as well as for extracting a high order (n >10000) state space representation of the mirror dynamics with actuation voltages as system inputs and scanner displacement as system output. by applying model order reduction techniques using matlab (r) a compact state space system approximation of order n = 6 is computed. based on this reduced order model feedforward control inputs for different, properly chosen scanner displacement trajectories are derived and tested using the original fem model as well as the micromirror.
state_space_representation	based on dynamical modeling, robust trajectory tracking control of a spherical mobile robot is proposed. the spherical robot is composed of a spherical shell and three independent rotors which act as the inner driver mechanism. owing to rolling without slipping assumption, the robot is subjected to two nonholonomic constraints. the state space representation of the system is developed using dynamical equations of the robot 's motion. as the main contribution, a dynamical model based smc (sliding mode controller) is designed for position control of the robot under parameters uncertainty and unmodeled dynamics. to decrease the chattering phenomena originated by the sign function, the well-known boundary layer technique is imposed on the smc. the control gains are determined through using lyapanov 's direct method in such a way that the robustness and to zero convergence of the controller 's tracking error are guaranteed. wide range computer simulations are performed to show the significant tracking performance of the proposed smc in particular against parameters uncertainty and white gaussian noises. the simulation results show the significant performance of the designed nonlinear control system in trajectory tracking control of the spherical robot even in the presence of parameters uncertainty and unmodeled dynamics.
state_space_representation	we propose to solve a black-oil reservoir optimal control problem with the direct multiple shooting method (ms). ms allows for parallelization of the simulation time and the handling of output constraints. however, it requires continuity constraints on state variables to couple simulation intervals. the black-oil fluid model, considering volatile oil or wet gas, requires a change of primary variables for simulation. this is a consequence of the absence of a fluid phase due to dissolution or vaporization. therefore, reservoir simulators parametrize the states with an augmented vector and select primary variables accordingly. however, the augmented state vector and the corresponding change of primary variables are not suitable for the application of ms because the optimization problem formulation must change according to the change of variables. thus, we propose a minimal state-space variable representation that prevents this shortcoming. we show that there is a bijective mapping between the proposed state-space representation and the augmented state-space. the minimal representation is used for optimization and the augmented representation for simulation, thereby keeping the simulator implementation unchanged. therefore, the proposed solution is not invasive. finally, the application of the method is exemplified with benchmark cases involving live oil or wet gas. both examples emphasize the requirement of output constraints which are efficiently dealt with the ms method. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
state_space_representation	this paper describes the development of a simulation model in state space representation for a class of microwave heating model. under the assumptions on thermodynamics mechanism, one-dimensional heating model in rectangle waveguide is derived by combining lambert 's law and heat conduction equation. through introducing the spatial differential operator in inhomogeneous thermal conduction equation, one-dimensional heating model in form of partial differential equations (pde) can be divided into finite-dimensional slow one and infinite-dimensional complement, which provides a application for galerkin 's method to transform the pde into state space form. the simulation of state space model has shown that the trend and distribution of temperature are in good agreement with that of traditional numerical model.
state_space_representation	many global identification approaches described in the literature for estimating linear parameter-varying (lpv) discrete-tin time state-space (ss) models with affine dependence on the scheduling parameter suffer heavily from the curse of dimensionality, making identification of moderate sized systems computationally intensive or infeasible. in this paper, we present a novel two-step approach to estimate lpv-ss models based on a single data set with varying scheduling signal by combining, 1) lpv correlation analysis, and 2) a deterministic lpv realization scheme. step 1 includes the estimation of the sub-markov parameters of the system using correlation analysis of the involved signals. subsequently, for step 2, this paper presents a novel basis reduced exact ho-kalman like realization scheme, which uses only sub parts of the extended hankel matrix. therefore, the computational complexity is significantly reduced compared to the full scheme. to demonstrate that the basis reduction does not, lead to a loss in performance, a simulation study is provided. (c) 2015, ifac (international federation of automatic control) hosting by elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
signal-flow_graph	there are various existing solution for solving the xor problem in artificial neural network. even the author in his previous work has proposed several solutions to the problem. in this paper we will see a new solution to the xor problem. the author has given a brief introduction to the artificial neural network concept. discussion on linear separablility and non-linear separability is made. fixation of the non-linearly separable problem is made. a solution to the non-linearly separable problem i.e. xor problem is proposed. architectural graph and signal flow graph proposing the final solution to the problem is given. mathematical explanation to the solution is given.
signal-flow_graph	this paper introduces a systematic methodology for applying mason 's signal flow graph to the analysis of feedback circuits. we demonstrate that the relationships among signals of feedback circuits can be represented in a intuitive and graphical manner utilizing signal flow graphs. once constructed, the desired solutions can be achieved by simple inspection of the signal flow graph. the thevenin and norton equivalent circuits are utilized to model the loading effects of the feedback network in the example circuits presented.
signal-flow_graph	a new adaptive filtering algorithm for time-series data based on the qrd inverse-updates method of pan and plemmons is derived from first principles. in common with other fast algorithms for time-series adaptive filtering, this algorithm only requires o(p) operations for the solution of a pth-order problem. unlike previous fast algorithms based on the qrd technique, the algorithm presented here explicitly produces the transversal filter weights. furthermore the derivation of the algorithm is achieved, quite simply, by means of signal-flow-graph manipulation. the relationship between this fast qrd inverse-updates algorithm and the ftf algorithm is briefly discussed. the results of some preliminary computer simulations of the algorithm, using finite-precision floating-point arithmetic, are presented.
signal-flow_graph	a systematic method for designing log-domain wave filters is presented. wave filters simulate topologically and functionally passive double terminated lc ladder prototype filters of low sensitivity. the design in the log-domain is based on a transposition of the signal flow graph (sfg) that corresponds to the wave equivalent of elementary two-port blocks in the linear domain, to the corresponding log-domain sfg. this is achieved by using an appropriate set of complementary operators, in order to preserve the linear operation of the whole circuit. simulation results of a fifth-order low-pass and a fourth-order bandpass log-domain wave filter are given, using hspice. the proposed circuits are suitable for low-voltage operation and in high-frequency applications.
signal-flow_graph	a study of critical information (maximum current and voltage estimation for the used components, mean values for semiconductor parts and an assessment of expected power losses) for a half-bridge bidirectional buck boost dc-dc converter equipped with an lc filter is carried out. a practical model from this converter is derived and a transfer function from the duty cycle and from the voltages (input to the output) is calculated via a linearization method. a signal flow graph of the converter can be obtained. to decrease the power losses, the concept of zero voltage switching is used and explained.
electrical_circuits	this paper investigates feasibility of developing a predictive rating method to optimize line rating of underground transmission lines based on weather forecast information. transmission lines, overhead or underground, are essential and indispensable parts of the electric grid which basically transfer energy from the production point to where it is needed. line rating defined as line 's maximum capacity to transfer electric current and power safely and reliably under certain constraints and criteria. to ensure safe operation, rating has been classically calculated according to the worst case scenario, where conductor 's temperature rise would remain within specified limit under most unfavorable conditions. obviously, such an approach leads to very conservative results, leaving line mostly underutilized throughout its life span. in order to optimize line utilization, ambient adjusted rating and more recently dynamic line rating methods are developed. for instance, in dynamic line rating, real-time data are used to determine instantaneous line rating. we have investigated necessity and possibility of developing a predictive model for underground transmission lines by employing weather forecast information, which would enable line operators or owners to anticipate optimized line ampacity and maximum rating over the next few days. the proposed basic model builds upon the already developed and well-documented analogy between thermal and electrical circuits, yet incorporates a time varying source to account for constantly changing ambient temperature. deterministic weather forecast information can be collected from environment canada.
electrical_circuits	knowledge representation plays a very important role for designing knowledge base systems as well as intelligent systems. nowadays, there are many effective methods for representing such as: semantic network, rule-base systems, computational network. computational objects knowledge base (cokb) can be used to represent the total knowledge and design the knowledge base of systems. in fact, a popular form of knowledge domain is knowledge about operations and computational relations, especially computational knowledge domain, such as: linear algebra, analytic geometry. however, cokb model and the other models have not solved yet some problems about operators: specification of operator, properties of operator, reducing an expression. in this paper, we will present a reducing model of cokb. this model, called ops-model, represents knowledge about operators between objects and solve some problems related to these operators. through that, the algorithms for designing inference engine of model have been built up. moreover, ops-model has been applied to specify a part of knowledge domain about direct current (dc) electrical circuits and construct a program for solving some problems on this knowledge domain.
electrical_circuits	this paper presents an alternative to existing techniques based on nodal analysis designed specifically to suit implementation in matrix-oriented programming languages, keeping the simplicity of original nodal analysis and bringing improvements to make virtually all circuit topologies solvable through it, dealing with potential singularities, hence the name singular nodal analysis (sna). two variants of this novel algorithm are described. their validity is proven and their applicability is shown through two practical examples.
electrical_circuits	we developed a simple method to prepare hybrid copper-silver conductive tracks under flash light sintering. the developed metal nanoparticle-based ink is convenient because its preparation process is, free of any tedious washing steps. the inks were composed of commercially available copper nanoparticles which were mixed with formic acid, silver nitrate, and diethylene glycol. the role of formic acid is to remove the native copper oxide layer on the surface of the copper nanoparticles. in this way, it facilitates the formation of a silver outer shell on the surface of the copper nanoparticles through a galvanic replacement. in the presence of formic acid, the copper nanoparticles formed copper formate, which was present in the unsintered tracks. however, under illumination by a xenon flash light, the copper formate was then converted to copper. moreover, the resistance of the copper-only films increased by 6 orders of magnitude when oxidized at high temperatures (similar to 220 degrees c). however, addition of silver nitrate to the inks suppressed the oxidation of the hybrid copper-silver films, and the resistance changes in these inks at high temperatures were greatly reduced. in addition, the hybrid inks proved to be advantageous for use in electrical circuits as they demonstrated a stable electrical conductivity after exposure to ambient air at 180 degrees c.
electrical_circuits	in this paper a novel set of indicators is presented for arc faults detection in electrical circuits. the indicators are defined starting from an experimental characterization of the arc fault phenomenon and the study of the arcing current in several test conditions, which were chosen in accordance with the ul 1699 standard requirements. the proposed parameters are measured by means of a high resolution low frequency spectral analysis of the arcing current, which allows to achieve a good spectral resolution even with short observation windows.
lorentz_force_law	in this paper we will consider the nature of electrodynamics in an absolute euclidean space-time. consequently, we will also consider the nature of dynamics in general. rn many respects the situation is similar to that in (electro)dynamics in the theory of relativity. in other respects there are some pronounced differences. they lead, for instance, to new kinds of modifications of the lorentz force law as well as coulomb 's law. we will show how easily the null result of trouton 's experiment can be understood by means of this new kind of electrodynamics. in addition, we will investigate the consequences of the reversal of proper time. it turns out that our theory leads to the prediction of the possible existence of particles with new electromagnetic characteristics. finally, we will make a few remarks about the concept of an internal space in an absolute euclidean space-time.
lorentz_force_law	the lagrangian and hamiltonian formulations of electromagnetism are reviewed and the maxwell equations are obtained from the hamiltonian for a system of many electric charges. it is shown that three of the equations which were obtained from the hamiltonian, namely the lorentz force law and two maxwell equations, can be obtained as well from a set of postulated poisson brackets. it is shown how the results derived from these brackets can be used to reconstruct the original lagrangian for the theory aided by some reasoning based on physical concepts.
lorentz_force_law	this letter discusses the failure of the lorentz force law to locate the recoil action in railguns. ampere 's force law makes predictions which agree with experiment.
lorentz_force_law	since the eddy current problem usually. depends on the geometry of the moving conductive sheet and pole shape, there is no general method to find out its analytical solution. the analyses of the eddy current in a rotating disk with an electromagnet and one 's extended array are performed in the case of time-invariant field to find their approximate analytical solution. as a method to solve the eddy current problem, firstly, the concept of the coulomb 's law and the mapping technique are introduced with the consideration of the boundary condition. secondly; the induced magnetic flux density is calculated in a lumped way by using ampere 's law. thirdly, the net magnetic flux density is defined by introducing the magnetic reynolds number r-m which is the ratio of the induced magnetic flux density to the applied magnetic flux density from the electromagnet. fourthly, the analyses are extended to the system with the extended array of two electromagnets. finally, the braking torque is calculated by applying lorentz force law and the computed result is compared with the experimental one.
lorentz_force_law	this paper presents an analytical model for the force and torque developed by a reaction sphere actuator for satellite attitude control. the reaction sphere is an innovative momentum exchange device consisting of a magnetic bearings spherical rotor that can be electronically accelerated in any direction making all the three axes of stabilized spacecrafts controllable by a unique device. the spherical actuator is composed of an 8-pole permanent magnet spherical rotor and of a 20-coil stator. force and torque analytical models are derived by solving the laplace equation and applying the lorentz force law. the novelty consists in exploiting powerful properties of spherical harmonic functions under rotation to derive closed-form linear expressions of forces and torques for all possible orientations of the rotor. specifically, the orientation of the rotor is parametrized using seven decomposition coefficients that can be determined noniteratively and in a linear fashion by measuring the radial component of the magnetic flux density from at least seven different locations. therefore, force and torque models for all possible orientations of the rotor are expressed in closed form as linear combination of mutually orthogonal force and torque characteristic matrices, which are computed offline. the proposed analytical models are experimentally validated using a developed laboratory prototype.
system_identification	model-based fault diagnosis has attracted considerable attention from researchers and developers of flight control systems, thanks to its hardware simplicity and cost-effectiveness. however, the airplane model, which is adopted commonly in fault diagnosis, only exists theoretically and is linearized in approximation. for this reason, uncertainties such as system non-linearity and subjectivity will degrade the fault diagnosis results. in this paper, we propose a novel actuator fault diagnosis scheme for flight control systems based on model identification techniques. with this scheme, system identification can be achieved with a linear model that uses a closed-loop subspace model identification algorithm, and a non-linear model that uses an extended state observer and neural networks. on this basis, the current actuator fault is estimated using an adaptive two-stage kalman filter. finally, the non-linear six-degree-of-freedom model of a b747 airplane is simulated in the matlab/simulink environment, where the effectiveness of the proposed scheme is verified from fault diagnosis tests.
system_identification	an optimal controller for high-precision spiral positioning of a piezoelectric tube scanner used in an atomic force microscope (afm) is proposed in this paper. in the proposed control scheme, a second-order vibration compensator is incorporated with the piezoelectric tube scanner (pts) to suppress the vibration of the pts at the resonant frequency. an internal model of a reference sinusoidal signal is included with the augmented plant model and an integrator is introduced with a linear quadratic gaussian controller which reduces the phase error between the input and output sinusoids. the proposed method allows a commercial afm to scan at high scanning speeds as an alternative to the raster scanning approach. the performance of this controller is assessed with closed-loop frequency response, tracking accuracy, and a set of spiral scanned images. the raster scanned images obtained using the standard afm pi controller is also presented for comparison with the spiral images. experimental results prove the effectiveness of the proposed method. note to practitioner-the main motivation for this work is to propose a control system for high-speed imaging using an afm. the scanning speed of a commercial afm is limited by the positioning accuracy of the scanner. the scanner is made of a piezoelectric tube actuator. the commercially available scanners have the following problems: 1) creep effect at slow speed scanning; 2) hysteresis effect during large range scanning (these two effects result in inaccurate reference motion tracking); and 3) vibration effect at high frequencies due to its mechanical flexibility. to overcome these limitations, an internal reference model-based linear quadratic gaussian control approach is designed and experimentally implemented using the dspace ds-1103 real-time prototype system. before the control design, the scanner is modelled (experimentally) by using a system identification method, and a vibration compensator is incorporated with the identified model. apart from the control design, a spiral motion of the scanner is considered instead of a well-known raster scanning which is adopted in all commercial afms. the designed controller is applied in the piezoelectric tube scanner experimentally, and the obtained results are presented in terms of tracking accuracy, damping of scanners vibration, and generating high-quality images as compared with the existing commercially available methods. the existing commercial system can generate a sensible image up to 30 hz scanning frequency but, using the proposed method, a high-quality image up to 120 hz is achieved. with a slight software modification, the proposed improvement can be used in commercial afms.
system_identification	output-only system identification is a very attractive technique for its implementation simplicity. however, it requires long records to validate the white-noise assumption of the excitation, mainly under transient forced vibration. alternatively, free-vibration record segments can be selected before the identification process. this improves the accuracy, even using less data, but it requires human intervention or input recording. in the present paper, an approach is proposed for accurate system identification from short output-only records of vibration induced by transient excitation, without human intervention. the approach is based on a novel heuristic search algorithm to find free-vibration record segments, which is fully automatic and it handles the possibility of free-vibration absence. tests with real-life data from structural health monitoring (shm) of a bridge showed that the free-vibration finding improves the accuracy of the modal parameter estimates up to ten times, as compared to using record segments starting at the response peak. the proposed approach drastically reduces the need to transmit large amounts of data, which impacts on hardware requirements of shm implementations. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
system_identification	a novel normalized least mean square (nlms)-based algorithm is proposed to locate the active taps of the unknown impulse response in the application of network echo cancellation. starting with the full length of the unknown echo path, the start-tap and end-tap estimates of the active region adapt, respectively, in the form of fractional tap. the effective tap-length estimate is defined by the length between the start-tap and end-tap estimates. the filter tap-weight vector is then updated with this effective tap-length estimate following the nlms algorithm, while the tap weights located beyond the effective tap-length estimate are directly set to zero. in case that the active region of the unknown echo path shifts in a large scale, the start-tap and end-tap estimates are reset to the full length when the effective tap-length estimate is lower than a predetermined threshold value. simulation results demonstrate that the proposed fractional tap-based algorithm can efficiently locate and track the effective tap length of the unknown echo path when the active coefficients change abruptly in locations and magnitudes, outperforming the existing stochastic tap-based schemes.
system_identification	the tuning method for a controller suggested by yunwana and seborg (1982) could not be applied to a system with time delay due to phase error by pade' approximiation. in this paper theoretically analyzes the phase error to find that phase error by pade' approximation and time delay are the major causes and suggests a novel optimal tuning method to solve those problems through configuration of regulators by means of bilinear transformation based on a previous study suh (1984).
pid_controller	in this paper performance and stability analysis of lcl resonant converter is analyzed in presence of the source inductance. most of the researchers do not consider the source inductance value; they assumed it to be ideal. but in reality it has some negative impact over the systems stability and output of the system. resonant converter has wide applications in telecommunication, aerospace, radar power applications and power supplies. there are three topologies of rc 's like lcc, lcl and lcl-t rc. on comparing these three configurations of rc, the lcl rc has good stability region. stability analysis has been done by lyapunov stability analysis, root locus analysis and nyquist plot analysis. open loop response and closed loop response of pid controller is compared with and without source inductance and concluded that pid has better response than open loop system. the parameters like rise time, settling time and overshoot are taken in to account. the result of this paper proves that, on including source inductance, the rise time, settling time and overshoot becomes higher. the open loop system has 80% of increased oscillations and settling time. but on using pid controller the oscillations has been reduced to 50% and settling time also reduced. thus pid controller has better response than open loop system. these results are simulated using matlab/simulink software package.
pid_controller	this paper deals with the design of a controller possessing tracking capability of any realisable reference trajectory while rejecting measurement noise. we consider discrete-time-varying multi-input multi-output stable linear systems and a proportional-integral-derivative (pid) controller. a novel recursive algorithm estimating the time-varying pid gains is proposed. the development of the proposed algorithm is based on minimising a stochastic performance index. the implementation of the proposed algorithm is described and boundedness of trajectories and convergence characteristics are presented for a discretised continuous-time model. simulation results are included to illustrate the performance capabilities of the proposed algorithm.
pid_controller	multilevel inverters are nowadays widely used in high-power and high-voltage applications. a multilevel inverter synthesizes a large number of levels to get the desired output voltage levels and they have lot of merits such as improved output waveform, smaller passive filter size, lower electro magnetic interference and reduced harmonics. however, multilevel inverters also have some disadvantages such as increased number of components, voltage-balancing problem and higher switching losses. this paper presents a pi and pid controlled cascaded h-bridge eleven level inverter based sinusoidal pulse width modulation control technique suitable for improved power quality applications. the main objective of reducing the thd of output of the chosen eleven level cascaded inverter under set point tracking as well as steady-state with fast transient response are proposed from control point of view. simulation results have been discussed that the cascaded h-bridge eleven level inverter performs perfectly in connection with pi or pid. a comparative analysis of these two different controllers is revealed. harmonic spectrum and output voltage and current waveforms have been obtained to validate the role of controllers. experimental results are presented to confirm the simulation results.
pid_controller	nowadays, electronic throttle control system is widely adapted in the motorcycle for better drivability, fuel economy and reduces the emissions. in such systems, pedal follower or torque based approach are used for calculating the required throttle angle for the given torque demand by driver. this work presents a throttle control system for the precise estimation of throttle angle based on the integrated pedal follower and torque based approach for the given accelerator position and torque demand by the driver. a mathematical model for an electronic throttle body is developed to understand the effects of nonlinearities due to friction and limp home dual springs. a pid controller with compensators are developed to handle the nonlinearities due to the friction and limp home dual springs in the proposed electronic throttle control system. a simulation study has been carried out using software in loop and hardware in loop simulation approaches for step, sinusoidal, and ramp input signals. the responses of electronic throttle body for opening the throttle angle and error are analyzed for the given input signals. the simulation result shows that the proposed compensators has significant advantage in reducing the throttle angle error and gives the desired output.
pid_controller	in this paper, a two-axis compensation device was designed to eliminate the impact of the attitude deviations of the moving platform on the laser point cloud. in order to improve the dynamic performance of the compensation device, the fuzzy proportional-integral differential (pid) controller was employed for the compensation device. then, a semi-physical simulation experiment was carried out to quantitatively evaluate the dynamic performance of the compensation device using a three-axis turntable and a high-accuracy inertial measurement unit (imu), which was used to measure the attitude deviations of the three-axis turntable in real time. as a result, the roll and pitch deviations of turntable measured by imu can be compensated using the two orthogonal frameworks of the compensation device controlled by fuzzy pid controller. the experimental results showed that the fuzzy pid controller compensated the attitude deviations more accurately than the traditional pid controller and the laser pointing direction could be remained within 0.2 degrees using the compensation device.
voltage_law	a contact-free method to obtain the current-voltage characteristics (cvc) of hard superconductors by measuring the relaxation of the magnetization in a perpendicular magnetic field is developed. the relaxation curves obtained for melt-textured ybco samples are well fitted by curves calculated within the electrodynamic model using a power-law cvc. this procedure uses only two fitting parameters, namely, the critical sheet current j(c) and the exponent tit of the power-law cvc. (c) 2006 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
voltage_law	given a nonlinear infinite resistive network, an operating point can be determined by approximating the network by finite networks obtained by shorting together various infinite sets of nodes, and then taking a limit of the nodal potential functions of the finite networks. initially, by taking a completion of the node set of the infinite network under a metric given by the resistances, limit points are obtained that represent generalized ends, which we call ""terminals,"" of the infinite network. these terminals can be shorted together to obtain a generalized kind of node, a special case of a 1-node. an operating point will involve kirchhoff 's current law holding at 1-nodes, and so the ow of current into these terminals is studied. we give existence and bounds for an operating point that also has a nodal potential function, which is continuous at the 1-nodes. the existence is derived from the said approximations.
voltage_law	in this paper, based on the equivalent single diode circuit model of the solar cell, an equivalent circuit diagram for two serial solar cells is drawn. its equations of current and voltage are derived from kirchhoff 's current and voltage law. first, parameters are obtained from the i-v (current-voltage) curves for typical monocrystalline silicon solar cells (125 mm x 125 mm). then, by regarding photo-generated current, shunt resistance, serial resistance of the first solar cell, and resistance load as the variables. the properties of shunt currents (i-sh1 and i-sh2), diode currents (i-d1 and i-d2), and load current (i-l) for the whole two serial solar cells are numerically analyzed in these four cases for the first time, and the corresponding physical explanations are made. we find that these parameters have different influences on the internal currents of solar cells. our results will provide a reference for developing higher efficiency solar cell module and contribute to the better understanding of the reason of efficiency loss of solar cell module.
voltage_law	it is well known that optimizing network topology by switching on and off transmission lines improves the efficiency of power delivery in electrical networks. in fact, the usa energy policy act of 2005 (section 1223) states that the united states should ""encourage, as appropriate, the deployment of advanced transmission technologies"" including ""optimized transmission line configurations."" as such, many authors have studied the problem of determining an optimal set of transmission lines to switch off to minimize the cost of meeting a given power demand under the direct current (dc) model of power flow. this problem is known in the literature as the direct-current optimal transmission switching problem (dc-ots). most research on dc-ots has focused on heuristic algorithms for generating quality solutions or on the application of dc-ots to crucial operational and strategic problems such as contingency correction, real-time dispatch, and transmission expansion. the mathematical theory of the dc-ots problem is less well developed. in this work, we formally establish that dc-ots is np-hard, even if the power network is a series-parallel graph with at most one load/demand pair. inspired by kirchoff 's voltage law, we provide a cycle-based formulation for dc-ots, and we use the new formulation to build a cycle-induced relaxation. we characterize the convex hull of the cycle-induced relaxation; this characterization provides strong valid inequalities that can be used in a cutting-plane approach to solve the dc-ots. we give details of a practical implementation, and we show promising computational results on standard benchmark instances.
voltage_law	in this work a classical derivation of fractional order circuits models is presented. generalised constitutive equations in terms of fractional riemann-liouville derivatives are introduced in the maxwell 's equations for each circuit element. next the kirchhoff voltage law is applied in a rcl circuit configuration. it is shown that from basic properties of fractional calculus, a fractional differential equation model with caputo derivatives is obtained. thus standard initial conditions apply. finally, models for bioimpedance are revisited. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
control_engineering	virtual and remote laboratories that are commonly used in engineering education are mainly designed using java programming language. the most popular and widely used learning management system is moodle. this paper describes the development of a virtual laboratory using easy java simulations software tool and its integration with e-learning tool moodle. the virtual laboratory demonstrates how easy java simulations and moodle are used in optimal control theory education by the example of the well-known brachistochrone problem solution.
control_engineering	we consider the problem of estimating an arbitrary dynamical parameter of an open quantum system in the input-output formalism. for irreducible markov processes, we show that in the limit of large times the system-output state can be approximated by a quantum gaussian state whose mean is proportional to the unknown parameter. this approximation holds locally in a neighbourhood of size t(-1/2) in the parameter space, and provides an explicit expression of the asymptotic quantum fisher information in terms of the markov generator. furthermore we show that additive statistics of the counting and homodyne measurements also satisfy local asymptotic normality and we compute the corresponding classical fisher informations. the general theory is illustrated with the examples of a two-level system and the atom maser. our results contribute towards a better understanding of the statistical and probabilistic properties of the output process, with relevance for quantum control engineering, and the theory of non-equilibrium quantum open systems.
control_engineering	dynamic loads of high capacity power grids under normal and severe conditions are the most concerns of system operators and dispatchers to maintain voltage stability. reactive power (q) are often drawn by loads from various generated sources disturbing the operational power factor. compensating methods are used, depending on load types and their reactive power patterns, to continuously monitor and correctly counteract fast changes by extremely rapid var compensation especially during transient conditions. using power electronics and combining both, power and control engineering, some facts devises equipped with selected power electronic switching are the appropriate methods to respond to system variations in almost no time. statcom regulates system voltages based on a voltage-source converters, by absorbing or generating reactive power. contrary to a thyristor-based static var compensator (svc), statcom output current (inductive or capacitive) can be controlled independent of the system voltage. this paper presents a design of voltage controller to analyze and validate the dynamic behavior of facts device (statcom)in riding through severe transient imbalance using a powerful computer simulation application pscad emtdc. the statcom was modeled in 3-phase network with various parameters in a steady state condition and during a short interval of system fault. the regulator provided the ride through during severe transient while maintaining sufficient bandwidth to perform necessary compensations. the controller behavior is simulated in distribution system model while it was subjected to severe three phases to ground fault with rapidly varying three phase load.
control_engineering	this paper introduced the improvement of the original control system of process control laboratory. the development of the liquid level, temperature and flow time-sharing control experiment platform adopting profibus-dp fieldbus technology of siemens. the newly designed control system using s7-300plc as the master control unit, s7-224 as the slave control unit, pc and touch screen as the upper computer is able to achieve real-time monitoring on-the-spot operation, adjust control parameters, centralized management and provide convenience for experimenters. the practical operating results show that the platform not only extends the function of equipment and improves the utilization rate of equipment, but also help students understand and master the advanced control technologies, such as the technology application of plc and touch screen, the process control engineering and the research of control algorithms.
control_engineering	continuum manipulator compliance enables operation in delicate environments while challenging the actuation and control approaches. in the case of a catheter ablation of atrial fibrillation, the compliance of the continuum backbone lends an inherent safety to the device. this inherent safety frustrates attempts at precise, accurate, and fast control, limiting the continuum devices to simple and static positioning tasks. this paper develops interleaved continuum-rigid manipulation, by which the hysteretic nonlinearities encountered in tendon-actuated continuum manipulators are compensated by the discrete rigid joints located between the continuum sections. the rigid joints introduce an actuation redundancy, which an interleaved controller may use to avoid the continuum nonlinearities and dynamic excitations, or to prefer particular configurations that may improve task accuracy, permit greater end-effector forces, or avoid environment obstacles. two experimental systems explore the potential of these joints to: 1) increase the manipulator 's dexterous workspace, and 2) correct for actuation nonlinearities and enhance manipulator performance. these experiments also expose important design and control observations that were not apparent in the general robotic and continuum literature.
