green_building	this research is based on taiwan 's first zero-carbon green building-magic school of green technology in national cheng kung university. actual energy consumption will be measured to explore benefits of energy-saving. the design origin for this building encompasses 13 green energy-saving techniques. united states department of energy dynamic building energy analytical software, equest, is used to execute the strictest energy consumption analytical assessment. it is forecasted to reach an energy-saving efficiency of 65% with energy use intensity (eui) of 43 kwh/m(2).yr for the whole building, far below that of 169 kwh/m(2).yr found in taiwan low/mid-rise office buildings. this building has begun operation in 2011, through actual readings from building energy management system (bems) during january to september, first-half-year accumulated eui of 33.5 kwh/m(2).yr against equest analytical assessment of 38.2 kwh/m(2).yr for the same period. demonstrating that equest analytical assessed value is very consistent with building 's actual energy consumption readings. the energy consumption standard in the experimental research behind the magic school of green technology stands at world class.
water_pollution	china has become the world largest paper and paperboard producer. however, pulp and paper industry has involved high resource consumption and severe pollution especially for water. this research has assessed the eco-efficiency of china 's pulp and paper industry at the national level and provincial level. an overview regarding the cleaner production of china 's pulp and paper industry was presented to reveal the measures for reducing environmental impact in the last two decades. slacks-based measure was used to analyze the efficiency levels of 16 provinces' pulp and paper industries. to uncover the underlying causes of eco-efficiency performance, malmquist-luenberger index was calculated to discover the drivers of productivity growth of pulp and paper industries. our results showed that the pollution treatment of china 's pulp and paper industry has made progress in terms of water consumption and water pollution, although the absolute amount of pollution discharge is still large. chemical oxygen demand emissions are still the first critical influencing factor of pulp and paper industry 's inefficiency. furthermore, efficiency progress was the dominating contribution of the industry 's productivity growth between 2010 and 2013. the policies for adjusting the industrial structure of pulp and paper industry have resulted in the scale effects through eliminating backward production capacity and accelerating merger and acquisitions. moreover, the productivity of pulp and paper industry was underestimated when the undesirable outputs were ignored. it indicates that the stricter environmental regulations have positive effects on paper companies to internalize environmental pressures in the production activities through environmental management. in the future, pulp and paper companies should further internalize the cost of pollution treatment through scale effects and technology improvement. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
smart_material	the interface of enabling technology with advanced product design has shown radical development in the field of intelligent sensor-embedded system design. numerous applications are envisaged exploiting this interconnectivity, particularly, in the field of biomedical applications. a need, for example, that is of growing demand, is in the field of remote health monitoring and control of critically ill patients, with the help of networked sensors. the continuous monitoring of the health of a patient in a hospital, information fusion from multiple sensor-data as well as broadcasting the recorded data on a network for the ease of access to the clinician and implementing the decisions of clinicians through automated drug delivery units could save millions of precious lives in a country with limited medical experts. in what follows is a brief detailed description of such a system that is developed.
ambient_intelligence	the ageing of the population, and their increasing wish of living independently, are motivating the development of welfare and healthcare models. existing approaches based on the direct heath-monitoring using body sensor networks (bsn) are precise and accurate. nonetheless, their intrusiveness causes non-acceptance. new approaches seek the indirect monitoring through monitoring activities of daily living (adls), which proves to be a suitable solution. adl monitoring systems use many heterogeneous sensors, are less intrusive, and are less expensive than bsn, however, the deployment and maintenance of wireless sensor networks (wsn) prevent them from a widespread acceptance. in this work, a novel technique to monitor the human activity, based on non-intrusive load monitoring (nilm), is presented. the proposal uses only smart meter data, which leads to minimum intrusiveness and a potential massive deployment at minimal cost. this could be the key to develop sustainable healthcare models for smart homes, capable of complying with the elderly people' demands. this study also uses the dempster-shafer theory to provide a daily score of normality with regard to the regular behavior. this approach has been evaluated using real datasets and, additionally, a benchmarking against a gaussian mixture model approach is presented.
construction_management	time, cost, and quality (tcq) as a triple constraint of construction projects have dependent and conflicting objectives. considering the limited resources, estimation of the approximate tcq is a complex and dynamic problem. in addition, the uncertain nature of construction projects and highly variable alternatives make the decision making process a complicated issue. in order to overcome these difficulties, many researchers in the related academic literature introduced different mathematical models on the tcq trade-off problem so far. in these models, two different approaches were used to estimate tcq-related data. in the continues approach, it was assumed that the relationship among these three components could be expressed by continuous functions. in the discrete approach, it was accepted that (i) the construction method, (ii) the crew formation, and (iii) the crew overtime policy have some impacts on the project tcq and that the relationships among these three components become discrete. however, in previous studies, construction materials that have a significant impact on tcq of construction activities and projects were not taken into account completely during the data formation process. as an exception, el rayes and kandil [1] considered different strengths of concrete as material alternatives in a highway construction project. in fact, all the studies focused on proving the applicability of different optimization techniques instead of optimizing tcq of a real construction project. in this context, some simple projects including a limited number of activities were used to evaluate the applicability of the developed models. therefore, in the present study, it is aimed to outline a new two-step methodology, including the alternative construction material utilization, for tcq trade-off problems, especially for building projects which enable the utilization of the high variety of construction materials. for this purpose, the impact of construction materials on tcq of a project was explained in a detailed manner. (c) 2016 the authors. published by elsevier ltd.
suspension_bridge	the ability to accurately predict traffic loading is essential for cost-effective bridge maintenance and repair programs. the traffic load model currently used in the united states for the design of long-span bridges was developed over three decades ago. in the meantime, vehicle characteristics and traffic patterns have changed. the eurocode for traffic loading is more recent, but was calibrated only for bridges up to 200 m long. in this work, weigh-in-motion traffic records from 11 different sites across alabama are used to establish congested traffic loading. traffic microsimulation is used to generate congestion based on real traffic data. influence lines for two typical long-span bridges, one cable-stayed bridge, and one suspension bridge are determined using finite-element models. these are used in the microsimulation model to estimate the bridge-load effects caused by congested traffic. these results are extrapolated to find the characteristic lifetime maximum values that are used to evaluate the eurocode load model to assess its suitability for long-span bridges. in a similar way, the current american load model for long-span bridges, commonly known as the asce model, is evaluated to see if it accurately reflects the congested traffic loading that is currently found on american highways. recent research has suggested the use of the aashto hl-93 load model to estimate the effects of traffic loading on long-span bridges, and this model is also evaluated in this work.
geotextile	this paper presents a case history of geotextile-reinforced dry cover placement on a reclaimed clay deposit treated by progressive trenching method. in order to investigate the effects of the cover material 's characteristic of ensuring trafficability with respect to bearing failure and ground deformation, two types of covers were considered in pilot tests: a layer of weathered granite soil cover and a layer of weathered granite soil over stiff crushed stone. a number of in-situ plate load tests were conducted for various cover conditions to assess the bearing capacity of the reclaimed deposit and to determine the thickness and material compositions that satisfy the bearing capacity requirement. in full-scale pilot tests for cover placement, field monitoring was carried out for the surface settlement and pore pressure that developed in the reclaimed clay layer. the results of plate-loading tests and monitoring during staged cover placements are discussed and compared using numerical predictions obtained from both finite element analyses and undrained stability analyses. the comparison results showed that the drainage condition of the ground surface facing the dry cover is strongly related to the ground response and stability.
stealth_technology	in this paper, we propose a technique for ir low-observability that uses an active ir signal tuning through the real time control of the object surface temperature according to the varying background environment. this is achieved by applying the proper object surface temperature obtained to result in the minimum radiance difference between the object and the background. experimental verification by using the thermoelectric temperature control element shows that the ir radiance contrast between the object and the background can be reduced up to 99% during the night and up to 95% during the day time as compared to the un-tuned original radiance contrast values. the stealth technology demonstrated in this paper may be applied for many military systems needed for the ir stealth performance when a suitable temperature control unit is developed.
solar_energy	a bubble pump is proposed to replace the traditional mechanical solution pump in lithium bromide absorption chillers, for its advantageous feature that can be driven by industrial waste heat or solar energy or other low-grade energy. in two-stage bubble pump driven lithium bromide absorption refrigeration system, flow patterns in lifting pipe have significant effects on the performance of bubble pump. in this paper, the single bubble motion and the double bubbles coalescence in vertical ascending pipe are simulated by an improved free energy model of lattice boltzmann method, in which the two-phase liquid to gas density ratio is 2778. the details of bubbles coalescence process are studied. density and velocity of bubbles have been obtained. the computational results show that the initial radius of each bubble has a great influence on the coalescence time. the larger the initial bubble radius, the shorter the coalescence time. the pipe diameter has a little effect on the two bubbles coalescence time while it has a significant effect on the bubble velocity. as the pipe diameter increases, the bubble velocity increases. the obtained results are helpful for studying the transition mechanisms of two-phase flow patterns and useful for improving the bubble pump performance by controlling the flow patterns in lifting pipe. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
remote_sensing	surface remote sensing of aerosol properties provides ground truth for satellite and model validation and is an important component of aerosol observation system. due to the different characteristics of background aerosol variability, information obtained at different locations usually has different spatial representativeness, implying that the location should be carefully chosen so that its measurement could be extended to a greater area. in this study, we present an objective observation array design technique that automatically determines the optimal locations with the highest spatial representativeness based on the ensemble kalman filter (enkf) theory. the ensemble is constructed using aerosol optical depth (aod) products from five satellite sensors. the optimal locations are solved sequentially by minimizing the total analysis error variance, which means that observations at these locations will reduce the background error variance to the largest extent. the location determined by the algorithm is further verified to have larger spatial representativeness than some other arbitrary location. in addition to the existing active aerosol robotic network (aeronet) sites, the 40 selected optimal locations are mostly concentrated on regions with both high aod inhomogeneity and its spatial representativeness, namely, the sahel, south africa, east asia, and north pacific islands. these places should be the focuses of establishing future aeronet sites in order to further reduce the uncertainty in the monthly mean aod. observations at these locations contribute to approximately 50% of the total background uncertainty reduction.
rainwater_harvesting	water is a scarce resource in arid regions, and hence water harvesting is critically important in these regions for which many different means are adopted including groundwater and rainwater harvesting. this paper examines the feasibility of rainwater harvesting from roof catchments in arid regions of australia. for this, ten representative locations in the arid regions of australia are selected. also, ten different sizes of rainwater tanks ranging from 5 kl to 50 kl and three different combinations of water uses are considered. a model is developed to simulate the performance of a rainwater harvesting (rwh) system. it is found that the reliability of a rwh system is highly dependent on mean annual rainfall at the location of interest. it is found that a 20 kl tank can provide a reliability of 61%-97% for toilet and laundry use depending on the location within the australian arid regions. at the current water price, rwh system is not financially viable in the australian arid regions. the methodology adopted in this paper can be adapted to other similar arid regions of the world. (c) 2014 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
