fluid_mechanics	solutions are presented for both laminar developing flow in a curved pipe with a parabolic inlet velocity and laminar transitional flow downstream of a curved pipe into a straight outlet. scalings and linearized analyses about appropriate base states are used to show that both cases obey the same governing equations and boundary conditions. in particular, the governing equations in the two cases are linearized about fully developed poiseuille flow in cylindrical coordinates and about dean 's velocity profile for curved pipe flow in toroidal coordinates respectively. subsequently, we identify appropriate scalings of the axial coordinate and disturbance velocities that eliminate dependence on the reynolds number re and dimensionless pipe curvature alpha from the governing equations and boundary conditions in the limit of small alpha and large re. direct numerical simulations confirm the scaling arguments and theoretical solutions for a range of re and alpha. maximum values of the axial velocity, secondary velocity and pressure perturbations are determined along the curved pipe section. results collapse when the scalings are applied, and the theoretical solutions are shown to be valid up to dean numbers of d = re-2 alpha = o(100). the developing flows are shown numerically and analytically to contain spatial oscillations. the numerically determined decay of the velocity perturbations is also used to determine entrance/development lengths for both flows, which are shown to scale linearly with the reynolds number, but with a prefactor similar to 60% larger than the textbook case of developing flow in a straight pipe.
hydraulics	stream restoration efforts in the united states are increasingly aimed towards water quality improvement, yet little process-based guidance exists to compare pollutant removals from different restoration techniques for variable site conditions. excess nitrate (no3-) is a frequent pollutant of concern due to eutrophication in downstream waterbodies such as the chesapeake bay. we used mike she to simulate hydraulics and no3- removal in a 90 m restored reach of stroubles creek, a second-order stream in blacks-burg, virginia. site specific geomorphic, hydrologic, and hydraulic data were used to calibrate the model. we evaluated in-stream structures that induce hyporheic zone denitrification during baseflow and inset floodplains that remove no3- during storm flows. we varied hydraulic conditions (winter baseflow, summer baseflow, storm flow), biogeochemical parameters (literature hyporheic zone denitrification rates and newly available inset floodplain removal rates) and boundary conditions (upstream no3- concentration), sediment conditions (hydraulic conductivity), and stream restoration design parameters (inset floodplain length). our results indicate that no3- removal rates within the 90m reach were minimal. structure-induced hyporheic zone denitrification did not exceed 3.1% of mass flowing in from the upstream channel, was achieved only during favorable background groundwater hydraulic conditions (i.e. summer baseflow), and was transport-limited such that non-trivial removal rates were achieved only when the streambed hydraulic conductivity (k) was at least 10(-4) m/s. inset floodplain nitrogen removal was limited by floodplain residence time and no3- removal rate, and did not exceed 1% of inflowing mass. summing these removals for both restoration practices over the course of the year based on the frequency of storm and summer baseflow conditions yielded similar to 2.1% annual removal. achieving 30% no3- removal required increasing the length of stream reach restored to 0.9 km-819 km (depending on hydraulic conductivity) and 3.8-46 km (depending on inset floodplain length and nitrogen removal rate) for in-stream structures during baseflow and inset floodplains during storm flow, respectively. in one of the first comparisons of process-based modeling to the chesapeake bay program stream restoration guidance, we found that the guidance overestimated hyporheic no3- removal for our modeled reach, but correctly estimated inset floodplain removal. overall, our results indicate that in-stream structures and inset floodplains can improve water quality, but overall required level of effort may be high to achieve desired results. (c) 2016 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
computer-aided_design	we used additive manufacturing (3d printing) to create ordered porous beds from a range of geometric shapes, including truncated icosahedra (approximating spheres), tetrahedral, octahedral, triangular bipyramid, and stellar octangular particles. we show that the printed porous media were highly reproducible and had excellent fidelity in physically reproducing computer-aided design models, with differences between designed and experimentally measured particle locations within +/- 0.5%, and within 13% in terms of bed porosity. experimental residence time distributions were measured and the reduced plate height, h, was determined under different reduced velocities (peclet number, pe = 4-400). the results (using equivalent particle diameter to non-dimensionalize) show that, for the simple cubic (sc) arrangement, tetrahedral particles had a lower plate height (h(min) = 1.56) than all other particle shapes tested, including spherical particles. we also, for the first time, experimentally validated computational predictions of the performance of sc, body centered cubic (bcc) and face centered cubic (fcc) arrangements of spheres, confirming that fcc is indeed superior (h(min), = 1.12) to sc (h(min) = 1.62). we conclude that the capability offered by additive manufacturing in controlling not only packing configuration but also shape, position and orientation of the geometric elements within the porous bed may, in the future, play a fundamental role in the design of highly efficient 3d-printed columns. (c) 2017 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
manufacturing_engineering	this paper presents a neural network-based vision inspection system interfaced with a robot to detect and report ic lead defects on-line. the vision system consists of custom software that contains a neural network database for each of the ics to be inspected on a pcb. the vision system uses gray scale images and a single layer neural network with three outputs based on defect criteria. each ic has a different inspection area, thus, the input vector varies for each of the ics. the ic networks were trained with matlab 's bayesian regularization module. performance of each of the networks investigated was found to be 100%, based on the defect criteria. this system has been implemented and tested on several electronic products using proe, c++ and opengl software platforms [r. balderas, s. bose, automated robotic inspection system for electronic manufacturing, mse thesis, manufacturing engineering department, ut-pan american, 2002; a.i. edinbarough. j. amieva, experimental study on the robotics vision inspection of electronic components, bs thesis, engineering technology department, ut-brownsville, 2002]. (c) 2005 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
machine_design	the complexity of products is increasing as more and more functions and structures are included in them, leading to higher requirements on better understand of users' behaviour in term of using the product during the early engineering design phase. although, industry and academia agree that human aspects are important for the success of the product, there are few methods that support the designers concerning these factors during the synthesis of the design process. the article describes a behaviour design approach (bda) to be used by industrial engineers, designers and ergonomists for ergonomic analysis and evaluation in product or machine design. this approach has been developed for both expert and non-expert practitioners, who can integrate user behaviour and product behaviour during the design phase for improving product performance.
thermodynamics	we compare the extent to which the properties of simple liquids are pertinent to short to moderate chain n-alkanes ranging from ethane (c-2) to dodecane (c-12). explicit geometric features such as bonds, angles and dihedral potentials in currently available models of n-alkanes make these systems more realistic, and distinct from the generalized lennard-jones chain fluids. our study confirms that the presence of these flexible geometric constraints completely suppresses the energy-virial correlation in these systems. however, they are found to have a strong energy-virial correlation in high density region of their phase diagram when the contribution from these geometric constraints are excluded. for fluids having simple liquid like behavior, semi-quantitative relationships between structure, dynamics, and thermodynamics are well established. range of state points is explored to test the applicability of such relationships for n-alkanes. considering the collection of monomer beads as the reference state, thermodynamic and structural entropic measures are systematically compared with and without intramolecular contributions. we show that the pair entropy computed with explicit intramolecular geometric constraints correlates well with thermodynamic excess entropy. both the thermodynamic and pair entropy have strong isochore dependence with reduced diffusivity. intermolecular pair entropy correlates well with reduced diffusivity. the role of multiparticle correlations is highlighted for predicting thermodynamic and transport properties in these chain systems. triplet correlations in addition to pair correlations are used as an attempt to improve the structural contribution to excess entropy. we show that if the three particle contribution is included in the computation of structural entropy, the resulting value overestimates the excess entropy. (c) 2017 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
materials_engineering	the paper refers to the approach used in science, specifically in building materials engineering, assuming the possibility of material modeling, including modeling of the technical characteristics of building materials of various compositions as well as modeling phenomena/processes that occur during the use of materials and structures made from them. the authors analyze the merits of the approach of modeling in the context of compliance computational models to reality, consider the significance of the selection of the proper model (type of mathematical function, number of input data) which should be based on the knowledge of modeled material or phenomenon and later adequate verification of the model. the authors also underline importance of proper interpretation of results obtained by calculation. misrepresentation may result in a misstated model of the studied phenomenon and lead to incorrect conclusions, which puts the researcher far from the truth, that he or she should always seek for.
strength_of_materials	in this paper, the method of discrete element model (dem) simulation was used to investigate the mechanical properties of sic ceramic materials under the action of pre-stress. using the bonded particle model (bpm), several different numerical tests (such as uct, tpb, senb tests) of sic ceramic were established. different pre-stress values were applied on the lateral surface of the ceramic specimen during the numerical simulation process, all tests were carried out at least 5 times with different random number, and the average mechanical properties results were calculated. it was showed that the existence of pre-stress has a significant effect on the mechanical properties of materials. it can enhance the strength of materials, while the force action on material in machining process force or action force the crack 's initiation and propagation was limited.
internal_combustion_engine	a comprehensive mathematical model is proposed to calculate the optimal leg length and cross-section area of teg unit to maximize the peak output power. the model shows that for a teg unit, there exists an optimal ratio of leg length and leg cross-section area corresponding to the maximum peak output power with a convective thermal boundary condition, and the optimal leg length and cross-section area can be further calculated based on the optimal ratio. the mathematical model is also validated in this paper, and the corresponding error is within a reasonable range. moreover, the effects of the leg length and leg area on the peak output power, the peak output power density and the efficiency of teg unit with different thermal boundary conditions are also discussed. this study will provide guidance for the structure design optimization of teg unit. (c) 2016 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
