label 8	GERMAN INDUSTRIAL EMPLOYMENT SEEN STAGNATING The number of workers employed in the West German industrial sector stagnated in the last quarter of 1986 as a 50,000 increase in overall employment benefited only the services branch, the DIW economic institute said. A DIW report added the general downturn in the economy since last Autumn had had a negative effect on the willingness of firms to take on workers. It referred to a marked downturn in the number of workers taken on in the capital goods sector. New orders for manufacturing industry goods have mostly fallen or stagnated in recent months, but data for February finally showed a reversal of the trend, with a 1.9 pct rise.  
label 8	SWEDISH UNEMPLOYMENT STEADY IN MARCH Swedish unemployment was steady at 2.2 pct of the workforce in March compared with the previous month, the Central Bureau of Statistics said. In March 1986, the figure stood at 2.4 pct.  
label 8	DUTCH ADJUSTED UNEMPLOYMENT RISES IN MARCH Dutch seasonally adjusted unemployment rose in the month to end-March to a total 693,000 from 690,600 at end-February, but was well down from 730,100 at end-March 1986, Social Affairs Ministry figures show. The figure for male jobless rose by 2,000 in the month to 436,500 compared with 470,700 a year earlier. The figure for women was 256,500 at end-March against 256,100 a month earlier and 259,400 at end-March 1986. On an unadjusted basis total unemployment fell by 16,500 in the month to end-March to 692,200. In March 1986 the figure was 725,000. A ministry spokesman said the unadjusted figures showed a smaller than usual seasonal decrease for the time of year, because of particularly cold weather delaying work in the building industry. He said this explained the increase in the adjusted statistics. Total vacancies available rose by 1,900 to 26,300 at end-March. A year earlier the figure was 28,763.  
label 8	AUSTRALIAN UNEMPLOYMENT RISES IN MARCH Australia's seasonally adjusted unemployment rate rose to 8.4 pct of the estimated workforce in March from 8.2 pct in February and 7.9 pct a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau said. The number of jobless rose to 650,700 from 631,900 in February and 593,200 a year earlier, the Bureau said. Unadjusted, the number of unemployed rose to 702,600 from 699,600 in February but the rate eased to 9.0 pct from 9.1, reflecting a slight increase in the estimated workforce. In March 1986, 640,400 persons, or 8.5 pct of the workforce, were out of work.  
label 8	U.S. FIRST TIME JOBLESS CLAIMS FELL IN WEEK New applications for unemployment insurance benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 338,000 in the week ended March 28 from 355,000 in the prior week, the Labor Department said. The number of people actually receiving benefits under regular state programs totaled 2,436,000 in the week ended March 21, the latest period for which that figure was available. That was down from 2,480,000 the previous week.  
label 9	EC SUGAR TENDER HARD TO PREDICT - LONDON TRADE The outcome of today's European Community (EC) white sugar tender is extremely difficult to predict after last week's substantial award of 102,350 tonnes at the highest ever rebate of 46.864 European currency units (Ecus) per 100 kilos, traders said. Some said they believed the tonnage would probably be smaller, at around 60,000 tonnes, but declined to give a view on the likely restitution. Last week, the European Commission accepted 785,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention by operators protesting about low rebates. This might be a determining factor in today's result, they added.  
label 9	NORTH YEMEN CALLS SUGAR BUYING TENDER - TRADE North Yemen has called a buying tender for Saturday for the purchase of 30,000 tonnes of white sugar for arrival in June, traders said.  
label 9	RAIN BOOSTS CENTRAL QUEENSLAND SUGAR CANE CROP Good rains of one to four inches in the past 10 days have boosted moisture-stressed sugar cane crops in the Mackay-Burdekin region of Queensland's central coast, an Australian Sugar Producers' Association spokesman said. As previously reported, the region has been undergoing a severe dry spell, partly relieved by scattered rainfall, since December, following the virtual failure of the summer wet season. Mills in the area have been reporting that their crops are beginning to look healthy and greener and are putting on growth since the rains began, the spokesman said from Brisbane. Although the Mackay-Burdekin crop outlook is much better than it was, there will be some cane losses, the spokesman said. But is too early to say what they will be and more rain is needed to restore sub-soil moisture. Elsewhere, in far north Queensland, the Bundaberg region and southern Queensland, the cane is in excellent condition and some mills are forecasting record crops, he said. Initial 1987 crop estimates will probably be compiled towards the end of May, he said. The cane crush normally runs from June to December.  
label 9	FRENCH TRADERS FORECAST EC SUGAR TENDER The European Community (EC) is expected to award export licences at today's weekly tender for above 60,000 and possibly up to 100,000 tonnes of white sugar after last week's award for 102,350 tonnes, traders here said. They expected a maximum rebate of between 46.40 and 46.50 Ecus per 100 kilos, compared to last week's 46.864. Earlier, traders in London said the outcome of the tender was very hard to predict after last week's substantial award and the placing of 785,000 tonnes of sugar into intervention. They said they believed the tonnage would be around 60,000 but declined to give a rebate figure.  
label 9	UK INTERVENTION BD SAYS EC SOLD 118,350 TONNES WHITE SUGAR AT REBATE 46.496 ECUS.  UK INTERVENTION BD SAYS EC SOLD 118,350 TONNES WHITE SUGAR AT REBATE 46.496 ECUS.  
label 10	INDONESIAN INFLATION RATE 8.8 PCT IN 1986/87 Inflation was by 8.8 pct in Indonesia during fiscal 1986/87 to March 31, compared to 5.66 pct the previous year, Information Minister Harmoko said after a cabinet session to discuss the economic situation.  
label 10	HUNGARY RAISES PRICES IN EFFORT TO CURB DEFICIT Hungary has announced sharp price increases for a range of food and consumer products as part of its efforts to curb a soaring budget deficit. The official MTI news agency said the government decided consumer price subsidies had to be cut to reduce state spending. From today the price of meat will rise by an average 18 pct and that of beer and spirits by 10 pct, MTI said. MTI said consumer goods will also become more expensive, with the price of refrigerators rising some five pct. It also announced a number of measures to ease hardship, including higher pensions and family allowances. Statistics indicate the budget deficit tripled in 1986 to 47 billion forints. Central banker Janos Fekete has said the Finance Ministry is trying to cut the 1987 shortfall to between 30 and 35 billion from a planned 43.8 billion. A major tax reform, including the introduction of a Western-style valued added tax, is planned for January 1988 in an effort to cure problems in state spending. But diplomats said the latest announcement shows the authorities were forced to act quickly to keep this year's deficit under control. The measures are also aimed at cooling an overheated economy, and could help dampen Hungarians' appetite for imported Western goods which consume increasingly expensive hard currency, the diplomats said. The diplomats also said, however, that they did not expect the kind of social unrest that followed sharp price rises in other East Bloc states, notably Poland.  
label 10	BANGLADESH COST OF LIVING INDEX FALLS IN JANUARY Bangladesh's cost of living index fell 1.09 pct in January to 479, after a 1.6 pct decline to 484.28 in December (1973-74 base 100), the Bureau of Statistics said. The cost of living index fell 0.14 pct to 434.49 in January 1986. In the year to January, inflation ran at 10.24 pct after an 11.3 pct rate a month earlier and 9.72 pct a year earlier.  
label 10	HUNGARY RAISES PRICES IN EFFORT TO CURB DEFICIT Hungary has announced sharp price increases for a range of food and consumer products as part of its efforts to curb a soaring budget deficit. The official MTI news agency said the government decided consumer price subsidies had to be cut to reduce state spending. From today the price of meat will rise by an average 18 pct and that of beer and spirits by 10 pct, MTI said. The measures are also aimed at cooling an overheated economy, and could help dampen Hungarians' appetite for imported Western goods which consume increasingly expensive hard currency, the diplomats said. The diplomats also said, however, that they did not expect the kind of social unrest that followed sharp price rises in other East Bloc states, notably Poland. MTI said consumer goods will also become more expensive, with the price of refrigerators rising some five pct. It also announced a number of measures to ease hardship, including higher pensions and family allowances.  
label 10	PORTUGUESE CONSUMER PRICES UP 1.4 PCT IN MARCH Portugal's consumer prices rose 1.4 pct in March after a one pct increase in February and a 1.2 pct rise in March 1986, the National Statistics Institute said. The consumer price index (base 100 for 1976) rose to 772.0 from 761.3 in February and compared with 703.4 in March 1986. This gave a year-on-year March inflation rate of 9.8 pct against 9.5 pct in February and 12.2 pct in March 1986. Measured as an annual average rate, inflation in March was 10.9 pct compared with 11.1 pct in February. The government forecasts annual inflation of about eight pct this year.  
label 11	STOLTENBERG SEES MOVES TO STRENGTHEN PARIS ACCORD West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said today's meetings of major industrial countries would look at ways of strengthening the Paris accord on stabilizing foreign exchange rates. Stoltenberg told journalists he saw no fundamental weakness of the February 22 agreement of the Group of Five countries and Canada to keep exchange rates near the then-current levels. But he declined to say what measures would be discussed ahead of a communique of the Group of Seven ministers later today. Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl said the importance of the Paris agreement, also known as the Louvre accord, had been underestimated. Stoltenberg said there is greater agreement now among major countries than six months ago, at the time of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank, marked by sharp discord between the United States and its major trading partners. "There is no fundamental weakness of the Paris accord," he said. "We will be looking at ways of strengthening it, but I do not want to discuss that here. Stoltenberg said the Louvre agreement was working despite a "slight firming" of the yen against the dollar. And Poehl noted that the dollar/mark parity was unchanged since February 22 without the Bundesbank having had to sell marks to support the dollar. "The Louvre agreement has been honored by the market," he said. Poehl said West Germany had lived up to its side of the bargain in Paris by preparing the way for tax cuts to be accelerated as a way of stimulating growth. Poehl said, however, that Japan had not yet fulfilled its pledges for economic stimulation. "And we will have to see if the United States is able to do what they promised in Paris on reducing the budget deficit -- and get it through Congress," he added. Stoltenberg reiterated West German concern about a further fall in the dollar, noting that the mark was up 85 pct against the dollar and nearly 20 pct on a trade-weighted basis. "You cannot expect that to go unnoticed in an economy. And it is not just a German problem, it is a European problem," he said.  
label 11	TOP OFFICIALS ARRIVE AT TREASURY FOR G-5 TALKS Top officials of leading industrial nations arrived at the U.S. Treasury main building to begin a meeting of the Group of Five. Officials seen arriving by Reuter correspondents included West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl, French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur and his central banker Jacques de Larosiere. Also seen arriving were Japanese Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa and Japan's central bank governor Satoshi Sumita and British Chancellor of the Exchequer and central bank governor Robin Leigh Pemberton. There was no immediate sign of Italian or Canadian officials. Monetary sources have said a fully blown meeting of the Group of Seven is expected to begin around 3 p.m. local time (1900 gmt) and last at least until 6 p.m. (2200 gmt), when a communique is expected to be issued. Italian sources said Italian acting Finance Minister Giovanni Goria met Treasury Secretary James Baker last night. At those talks Baker apparently convinced Goria, who declined to attend the February meeting of the Group of Seven in Paris, that Italy would participate fully in any meaningful decisions.  
label 11	GROUP OF FIVE MEETING ENDS A meeting of finance ministers and central bankers of the Group of Five ended after nearly three and a half hours. West German Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg and British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson declined to comment on the meeting as they emerged from the U.S. Treasury. A European monetary official said the ministers of the Group of Seven countries would gather at about three p.m. local (1900 GMT) at the Treasury.  
label 11	INDUSTRIAL NATIONS RECONVENE FOR TALKS Financial ministers and central bankers of leading industrial nations reconvened here this afternoon. Canadian Finance Minister Michael Wilson said on entering the meeting the ministers would review the Paris agreement. Asked if he was satisfied with West German and Japanese stimulus, Wilson replied, "They could do a little more." French Finance Minister Edouard Balladur, meanwhile, confirmed there would be a communique at the end of the meeting. Finance ministers and central bankers of Britain, FRance, Canada and West Germany were seen by Reuter correspondents returning to a Treasury building. Japanese officials and Bundesbank President Karl Otto Poehl did not appear to have left the building at the end of earlier Group of Five talks which broke up around 2 p.m. local time (1800 gmt). There was no sign, however, of the Italian delegation whose position was thrown into question this morning by the resignation of the Christian Democratic wing of Italy's Socialist-led government. European monetary officials said later that the Italian delegation was inside the building. This meant that a full blown meeting of the Group of Seven was in progress.  
label 11	SWISS TO LAUNCH NEW SERIES OF MONEY MARKET PAPER The Swiss Federal Government will launch a new series of three month money market certificates totalling around 150 mln Swiss francs, the National Bank said. Subscriptions close April 14 and payment date is April 16. The last series of three month paper issued in March raised 147.3 mln francs at an issue price of 99.142 pct, giving an average annual yield of 3.501 pct.  
label 12	FED EXPECTED TO SET CUSTOMER REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve is expected to intervene in the government securities market to supply temporary reserves indirectly via customer repurchase agreements, economists said. Economists expect the Fed to execute 2.0-2.5 billion dlrs of customer repos to offset pressures from the end of the two-week bank reserve maintenance period today. Some also look for a permanent reserve injection to offset seasonal pressures via an outright purchase of bills or coupons this afternoon. The Federal funds rate opened at 6-3/8 pct and remained at that level, up from yesterday's 6.17 pct average.  
label 12	FED SETS OVERNIGHT SYSTEM REPURCHASES, FED SAYS  FED SETS OVERNIGHT SYSTEM REPURCHASES, FED SAYS  
label 12	FED ADDS RESERVES VIA OVERNIGHT REPURCHASES The Federal Reserve entered the U.S. Government securities market to arrange overnight System repurchase agreements, a Fed spokesman said. Dealers said that Federal funds were trading at 6-3/8 pct when the Fed began its temporary and direct supply of reserves to the banking system.  
label 12	WOJNILOWER SEES DROP IN U.S. INTEREST RATES The Federal Reserve will promote lower interest rates this year to sustain world economic growth, First Boston Corp managing director Albert Wojnilower said. As much as the Fed would like to take a tough line against inflation, it cannot act to slow the growth of credit without subverting national U.S. economic policy. "On selected occasions when the dollar seems steady, and, because the trade deficit is not responding, the United States decided to push Germany and Japan harder to meet their commitments to economic growth, the Federal Reserve will do its part by moving rates down," Wojnilower said in a report. "Justifiably not anticipating either a recession or seriously higher interest rates, securities market participants have seen little to fear," Wojnilower said. He said last week's "hiccup" in money and currency rates and bond and stock prices was probably caused by Japanese window dressing for March 31 end-of-fiscal-year accounts. Wojnilower said the U.S. probably enjoyed above-average economic growth in the first quarter. However, the pick-up seems to reflect an unsustainable pace of inventory building and the prospect for the full year is still for real gross national product growth of about 2-1/2 pct, he said.  
label 12	GERMAN BANKERS' REMARKS REVIVE TALK OF RATE CUT Remarks by two leading central bankers sparked renewed speculation in financial markets that a cut in the West German three pct discount rate may be under discussion, currency dealers said. Bundesbank board member Claus Koehler said in a speech that monetary growth resulting from speculative capital inflows required cuts in interest rates. Separately, West Berlin state central bank president Dieter Hiss told journalists that the discount rate could fall below its lowest ever point of 2.75 pct. He made clear that he was not making a forecast on interest rates, however. Currency dealers here and in the Far East said the dollar gained slight background support from the speculation. But German dealers noted that the Bundesbank kept the 3.80 pct rate unchanged at which it offered liquidity to the money market this week, dashing some expectations that it may either offer lower fixed rate money or offer a reduced minimum rate and let the strength of banks' demands set the allocation rate. It allocated 6.1 billion marks in new liquidity, much less than the 14.9 billion leaving the market as a prior pact expired. This further weakened sentiment the Bundesbank could move to a more accommodative monetary stance, dealers said. Koehler said in a speech in Surrey, England, speculative capital inflows may cause monetary growth, regardless of whether central banks intervened or exchange rates fell. "In other words, the monetary policy measures required are different from -- and sometimes diametrically opposed to -- those needed when the money stock is increasing as a result of mounting economic activity." Though Koehler was known to be the most liberal of the generally monetarist Bundesbank board, his comments marked the first time cuts in rates had been concretely suggested as a counterpoint to overly strong monetary growth, dealers said. REUTER^M  
label 13	COCOA EXPORTERS EXPECTED TO LIMIT SALES Major cocoa exporters are likely to limit sales in the weeks ahead in an effort to boost world prices, sources close to a meeting of the Cocoa Producers Alliance (CPA) said. The sources said the depressed world market had been one of the main topics discussed in a closed door meeting of the 11-member CPA which began on Monday. They said producers agreed that cutting sales would aid the buffer stock manager of a new international cocoa pact in his effort to support prices. Major cocoa producing and consuming nations agreed operation rules for the buffer stock at a meeting in London last month and the stock manager is expected to enter the market soon. Prices, under the weight of three successive cocoa surpluses, recently fell to the level at which the manager has to buy cocoa under stock rules. The buffer stock aims to keep prices within a pre-set range by buying when prices fall and selling when they rise. "The world's cocoa price at present is just not interesting," commented one delegate representing a major CPA producer. Another source said that with much of the 1986/87 (October-September) world cocoa crop sold, limiting sales in the near term concerns essentially next year's harvest. The sources noted, however, that the cocoa industry in Brazil, the world's number two producer, is in private hands. This means limiting sales is more difficult than in major West African producers, where sales are made or authorized by commodity marketing boards. The CPA includes the world's top three producers, Ivory Coast, Brazil and Ghana, and accounts for 80 pct of all output. The meeting here is due to end tomorrow evening.  
label 13	COCOA TERMINAL DEPOSITS TO BE CUT 25 PCT - ICCH The basic deposit on cocoa futures contracts will be reduced by 25 pct as from Friday, April 10, taking the required deposit for one 10 tonne lot to 300 stg from 400 previously, a spokesman for the International Commodity Clearing House (ICCH) said. The deposit for spread contracts will be similarly cut, to 150 stg for a one 10 tonne lot from 200 previously, he said. The ICCH had been looking at cocoa market fluctuations over a period of weeks, he said, adding the market's basic stability had warranted a cut in deposit rates. The decision to cut deposits was taken by the ICCH after consultation with the London Cocoa Terminal Market, the spokesman said. The cuts were likely to attract more business to the market, he said.  
label 13	BRAZIL COCOA EXPORTERS UNLIKELY TO LIMIT SALES Brazilian cocoa exporters are not likely to follow the example of Cocoa Producers Alliance, CPA, members, who may limit sales of the product in an effort to boost world prices, trade sources said. They said a similar procedure was taken in the past in Brazil and that it did not work out according to plans. "The cocoa market is completely free. Unlike coffee, which is controlled through export registrations, cocoa exporters in Brazil operate at their own free will," a trade source said. The traders were responding to questions whether they would follow the example of CPA members meeting in Yaounde. The sources said the Banco do Brasil's Foreign Trade Department, CACEX, never interferes in the cocoa market by rejecting sales that do not meet certain price or shipment criteria. "The position of local producers is always to negotiate as they please. If they buy for ten and sell for eleven and think it's a good deal, they are free to go ahead," one source added.  
label 13	W.GERMAN COCOA GRIND UP 2.9 PCT IN FIRST QUARTER The West German cocoa grind rose 2.9 pct to 55,190 tonnes in the first quarter of 1987 from 53,643 tonnes in the same quarter of of 1986, the Bonn-based Confectionery Industry Association said in a statement. REUTER TAW  
label 13	WEST GERMAN COCOA GRINDINGS WITHIN EXPECTATIONS West German first quarter cocoa grindings, which rose 2.9 pct from the same 1986 quarter, were within expectations, trade sources said. They described the results, announced Saturday, as normal and unspectacular, considering that the grind in the fourth quarter was rather high and some was carried over into the first quarter. Grindings rose to 55,190 tonnes from 53,643 in the first 1986 quarter. A spokesman for the Confectionery Industry Association said that West German grindings are expected to stay relatively high in comparison to other West European countries.  
label 14	COLOMBIA BUSINESS ASKED TO DIVERSIFY FROM COFFEE A Colombia government trade official has urged the business community to aggressively diversify its activities and stop relying so heavily on coffee. Samuel Alberto Yohai, director of the Foreign Trade Institute, INCOMEX, said private businessmen should not become what he called "mental hostages" to coffee, traditionally Colombia's major export. The National Planning Department forecast that in 1987 coffee will account for only one-third of total exports, or about 1.5 billion dlrs, with oil and energy products making up another third and non-traditional exports the remainder.  
label 14	COFFEE COULD DROP TO 70/80 CTS, CARDENAS SAYS International coffee prices could drop to between 70 and 80 cents a lb by next October if no agreement is reached to support the market, Jorge Cardenas, manager of Colombia's National Coffee Growers' Federation said. Speaking at a forum for industrialists, he said one of the reasons was that the market was already saturated and that producers will have excess production and stockpiles of 39 mln (60-kg) bags in 1987. Today, May futures in New York settled at 107.90 cents a lb.  
label 14	COLOMBIA COFFEE REGISTRATIONS REMAIN OPEN Colombia's coffee export registrations remain open and there are no plans to close them since a new marketing policy means an unlimited amount can be registered, Gilberto Arango, president of the private exporters' association said. "The philosophy of the new policy is not to close registrations. Nobody so far said may would be closed," he told Reuters. On March 13, Colombia opened registrations for April and May for an unlimited amount. Without giving breakdowns, Arango said private exporters had registered 1,322,804 bags this calendar year up to April 6, or roughly 440,000 bags per month, slightly lower than the average in recent years. He estimated the amount of bags registered by the national coffee growers' federation at about the same, meaning a total of about 900,000 bags registered and sold per month by Colombia. "The only change that could happen is, because of the volume, we would be told that from such a date, registrations would be for June shipment, etc" Arango said.  
label 14	BRAZILIAN COFFEE RAINFALL THE FOLLOWING RAINFALL WAS RECORDED IN THE AREAS OVER THE PAST 24 HOURS PARANA STATE: UMUARAMA NIL, PARANAVAI NIL, LONDRINA NIL, MARINGA NIL. SAO PAULO STATE PRESIDENTE PRUDENTE NIL, VOTUPORANGA NIL, FRANCA NIL, CATANDUVA NIL, SAO CARLOS NIL, SAO SIMAO NIL. MINAS GERAIS STATE: GUAXUPE NIL, TRES PONTAS NIL. REUTER  
label 14	PRICES GENERALLY LOWER AT NAIROBI COFFEE AUCTION Prices were lower at this week's coffee auction for all grades and qualities except better quality AB grades, which held steady, the Coffee Board of Kenya said. The board said it offered 35,000 bags and sold 32,876. So far this coffee year, Kenya has sold 918,707 bags to all markets, of which 326,182 are for the 1986/7 pool, with an overall average price of 41,500 shillings a tonne, it added. The board will offer 35,000 bags at its next auction on April 14. BAGS                PRICE PER 50 KG OFFERED SOLD        AVERAGE PB      430   430   2304.78 (2267.21) AA     7289  6834   2292.92 (2358.96) AB    12664 11895   2289.99 (2291.13) C      3198  2867   2073.15 (2107.64) T       876   876   1508.79 (1510.67) TT     1375  1375   2053.25 (2095.64) E       159   159   2250.19 (2252.18) MISC   9009  8440   1409.50 (1398.60) TOTAL 35000 32876     AVERAGE FOR SALE      2014.93 (1994.94)  
label 15	TURKEY CALLS FOR DIALOGUE TO SOLVE DISPUTE Turkey said today its disputes with Greece, including rights on the continental shelf in the Aegean Sea, should be solved through negotiations. A Foreign Ministry statement said the latest crisis between the two NATO members stemmed from the continental shelf dispute and an agreement on this issue would effect the security, economy and other rights of both countries. "As the issue is basicly political, a solution can only be found by bilateral negotiations," the statement said. Greece has repeatedly said the issue was legal and could be solved at the International Court of Justice. The two countries approached armed confrontation last month after Greece announced it planned oil exploration work in the Aegean and Turkey said it would also search for oil. A face-off was averted when Turkey confined its research to territorrial waters. "The latest crises created an historic opportunity to solve the disputes between the two countries," the Foreign Ministry statement said. Turkey's ambassador in Athens, Nazmi Akiman, was due to meet Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou today for the Greek reply to a message sent last week by Turkish Prime Minister Turgut Ozal. The contents of the message were not disclosed.  
label 15	IRAQI TROOPS REPORTED PUSHING BACK IRANIANS Iraq said today its troops were pushing Iranian forces out of positions they had initially occupied when they launched a new offensive near the southern port of Basra early yesterday. A High Command communique said Iraqi troops had won a significant victory and were continuing to advance. Iraq said it had foiled a three-pronged thrust some 10 km (six miles) from Basra, but admitted the Iranians had occupied ground held by the Mohammed al-Qassem unit, one of three divisions attacked. The communique said Iranian Revolutionary Guards were under assault from warplanes, helicopter gunships, heavy artillery and tanks. "Our forces are continuing their advance until they purge the last foothold" occupied by the Iranians, it said. (Iran said its troops had killed or wounded more than 4,000 Iraqis and were stabilising their new positions.) The Baghdad communique said Iraqi planes also destroyed oil installations at Iran's southwestern Ahvaz field during a raid today. It denied an Iranian report that an Iraqi jet was shot down. Iraq also reported a naval battle at the northern tip of the Gulf. Iraqi naval units and forces defending an offshore terminal sank six Iranian out of 28 Iranian boats attempting to attack an offshore terminal, the communique said.  
label 15	GHANA TO BUY CRUDE OIL FROM IRAN Ghana will import 15,000 tonnes of crude oil annually from Iran under an agreement reached in Tehran today, the Iranian news agency IRNA reported. The agency, received in London, said the accord was reached between Iranian Oil Minister Gholamreza Aqazadeh and a visiting Ghanaian delegation headed by Foreign Minister Obed Asamoah. IRNA said that under the agreement, Iran will also provide technical and scientific assistance in manpower training and oil exploitation, production and refining.  
label 15	U.S. OIL DEPENDENCY SEEN RISING TO RECORD LEVEL The United States' dependency on foreign oil sources may reach record levels by the mid-1990s, according to John H. Lichtblau, president of Petroleum Industry Research Associates. Lichtblau, speaking at an alternative energy conference here, said the U.S. may depend on foreign suppliers for as much as 52 pct of its oil by 1995, surpasssing the previous high level of 47 pct in 1977. "The long term growth in dependency on foreign oil is inevitable," Lichtblau said. As much as 30 pct of U.S. oil imports in 1995 could come from OPEC nations, he said. Lichtblau said the U.S. depended on foreign suppliers for 33 pct of its oil in 1986 and predicted that would increase to 40 pct by 1990. "However, the rate of this growth can be affected positively or negatively through government action or inaction," Lichtblau said. He said that one of the government's negative actions is the maintenance of the windfall profits tax which acts as a disincentive to developing existing fields and reduces cash flow for oil exploration. Lichtblau called for the adoption of an international floor price for crude oil to help stabilize world oil prices. "An international floor price adopted by all or most industrial countries would clearly be a much more effective measure and would be much less distortive for the U.S. than if we imposed it alone," Lichtblau said. Development of alternate energy sources such as synthetic fuels as well as increased development in Alaska could lessen U.S. dependency on foreign oil, Lichtblau said. A potential for alternative supplies could limit the willingness of OPEC nations to raise oil prices, he said. Lichtblau also called for the federal government to offer tax abatements for oil drilling, to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve at a faster rate and to develop pilot plans for alternative energy.  
label 15	LA LAND &lt;LLX>,DU PONT &lt;DD>GET EXPLORATION TRACTS Louisiana Land and Exploration Co said it, Du Pont Co's Conoco Inc subsidiary and &lt;Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V.> have been offered four exploration blocks offshore The Netherlands. Louisiana Land said Blocks Q4a, E12c and E15b were offered to the group in which Conoco has a 67.5 pct interest, Louisiana Land 20 pct and Orange-Nassau 12.5 pct, while this group along with a consortium headed by Pennzoil Co &lt;PZL> were offered Block Q5c. The offers were the result of applications submitted to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the Netherlands Sixth Offshore Licensing Round. Louisiana Land said the Conoco group intends to provide a formal acceptance of the blocks with plans to start exploration this year. The company also said the two Q blocks immediately offset other offshore blocks on which hydrocarbons have been found in commercial quantities.  
