electric_motor	the power-on upshift control in automatic transmissions has a significant effect on the shift quality and is very complex. this paper aims to investigate the relationship between the limited motor torque control and the performance of the power-on upshift control in electric vehicles. first, a simplified model for an electric vehicle powertrain with a general two-speed automatic transmission was built. then, a power-on upshift control strategy was introduced into the powertrain model, with the aim of a constant output torque during power-on upshifts. the control strategy fully utilized the control flexibility of electric motors and specifically focused on the effects of the limited motor torque control during power-on upshifts. simulation results demonstrated that the proposed control strategy could significantly improve the shift quality of electric vehicles under mild driving conditions. however, the performance of the proposed control strategy under aggressive driving conditions was impaired by the limited motor torque control. an effective solution was proposed to improve the performance of the power-on upshift control under aggressive driving conditions. this work may be helpful to improve the shift quality of both electric vehicles and internal-combustion engine vehicles with automatic transmissions.
digital_control	this paper presents a three-phase transformerless uninterruptible power supply (ups) with sinusoidal pulse width modulation (spwm) based division-summation (d-sigma) digital control. a transformerless ups controls the power flow between dc link and utility grid, as well as tracks the ac reference voltage. the proposed control law derived with d-sigma digital approach takes into account the effects of dc-link voltage fluctuation, grid-voltage distortion and inductance variation due to different current levels. thus, distortion of input current and filter inductor core size can be reduced significantly. however, circulating current may flow through the common ground between the input power factor corrector (pfc) and the output three-phase four-wire inverter. the derived control law based on spwm can suppress this circulating current and regulate output voltages tightly. experimental results measured from a three-phase transformerless ups have confirmed the analysis and discussion of the proposed control approach.
microcontroller	this work presents the design, fabrication, and characterization of a passive printed radiofrequency identification tag in the ultra-high-frequency band with multiple optical sensing capabilities. this tag includes five photodiodes to cover a wide spectral range from near-infrared to visible and ultraviolet spectral regions. the tag antenna and circuit connections have been screen-printed on a flexible polymeric substrate. an ultra-low-power microcontroller-based switch has been included to measure the five magnitudes issuing from the optical sensors, providing a spectral fingerprint of the incident electromagnetic radiation from ultraviolet to infrared, without requiring energy from a battery. the normalization procedure has been designed applying illuminants, and the entire system was tested by measuring cards from a colour chart and sensing fruit ripening.
electrical_network	when a magnetic field is applied to type ii superconductors, such as yba2cu3o7.delta (ybco), the flux quanta penetrate the material as a regular array of vortices. however when transport currents are applied, they act to move these vortices, thus lowers the critical current density (j(r)) as well as destroying superconductivity. the development of microstructures made of ybco materials has enabled engineers to increase the critical current density, within type ii materials by introducing flux pinning centres into the material. the microstnicture and flux pinning properties of yba2cu3o7.delta system with varying levels (0-5 wt. a) of a nano perovskite ceramic insulator; yba2hfo5.5 addition was studied in detail. orthorhombic yba2cu3o7-delta powder was prepared through conventional solid state route and a modified combustion method was used for synthesizing nanocrystalline yba2hfo5.5. the structure and microstnicture of the samples examined by x.-ray diffraction and scanning electron microscopy showed that yba2hfo5.5 5 and ybco remained unreacted even at higher processing temperature without deteriorating the superconducting properties. the scanning electron microscope image shows that yba(2)hfo(5.5) forms an electrical-network between grains. these observations suggest that the yba(2)hfo(5.5) addition to the y-123-compounds improve the electrical connection between superconducting grains and substantial improvements in the relative electrical transport properties of the composites. the variation of sintering temperature, density, critical transition temperature (t-c) and magnetic field dependence of critical current density (j(r)) of yba2cu3o7,6 having different proportions of yba2hfo5.5 in the matrix were also studied in detail. it is found that the addition of these elements considerably enhances the flux pinning strength of the system, and there is also an increase of critical temperature (tc) and critical current density (jr) up to an optimum value of 8.76 x 10(4) a/cm(2)for a concentration of 2 wt a addition of nano yba2hfo5.5; . the enhancement of the critical current density in the yba2cu3o7-delta,6 - yba2hfo5.5 samples is attributed to the sustained formation of the insulating and non-reacting yba2hf055 phase acting as pinning center. the addition of yba2hfo5.5 in yba2cu3o7-delta,6 bulk superconductor also enhances the pinning force density from 3 x 10(6) n/m(3) to 69.6 x l0(6)n/m(3) at 77 k.
electricity	china is quickly installing advanced metering infrastructure (ami), which could provide tremendous opportunities in developing and utilizing demand response resources. demand response may potentially create a profitable industry and contribute to efficiency improvement, cost reduction, and pollution mitigation of the entire electricity sector. however, china lags behind the developed world in utilizing demand response. institutional barriers, including the lack of competitive electricity market and the resistance by the state grid corporations, are preventing the commercialization of demand response. in order to fully realize the potential of smart grid, china needs to push forward the reforms toward establishing an open access electricity market so the pollution-free demand response resources may compete with power generators on leveled field. (c) 2015 elsevier b.v. all rights reserved.
operational_amplifier	a low voltage and low power operational amplifier (opamp) using process, temperature insensitive current source has been presented. the design methodology of the addition based current source and the opamp implementation using this current source is presented. the spice simulations are carried out in gpdk 90 nm technology at 0.6 v supply. the results of addition based current source opamp are compared with the mosfet current source opamp. the proposed opamp shows better gain of 80.6db, gbw of 3mhz and low power consumption of 54 uw.
analog_signal_processing	with an increasing number of wind turbines being erected offshore, there is a need for cost-effective, predictive, and proactive maintenance. a large fraction of wind turbine downtime is due to bearing failures, particularly in the generator and gearbox. one way of assessing impending problems is to install vibration sensors in key positions on these subassemblies. such equipment can be costly and requires sophisticated software for analysis of the data. an alternative approach, which does not require extra sensors, is investigated in this paper. this involves monitoring the power output of a variable-speed wind turbine generator and processing the data using a wavelet in order to extract the strength of particular frequency components, characteristic of faults. this has been done for doubly fed induction generators (dfigs), commonly used in modern variable-speed wind turbines. the technique is first validated on a test rig under controlled fault conditions and then is applied to two operational wind turbine dfigs where generator shaft misalignment was detected. for one of these turbines, the technique detected a problem 3 months before a bearing failure was recorded.
state_space_representation	one- and two-dimensional mems scanning mirrors for resonant or quasi-stationary beam deflection are primarily known as tiny micromirror devices with aperture sizes up to a few millimeters and usually address low power applications in high volume markets, e.g. laser beam scanning pico-projectors or gesture recognition systems. in contrast, recently reported vacuum packaged mems scanners feature mirror diameters up to 20 mm and integrated high-reflectivity dielectric coatings. these mirrors enable mems based scanning for applications that require large apertures due to optical constraints like 3d sensing or microscopy as well as for high power laser applications like laser phosphor displays, automotive lighting and displays, 3d printing and general laser material processing. this work presents modelling, control design and experimental characterization of gimbal-less mems mirrors with large aperture size. as an example a resonant biaxial quadpod scanner with 7 mm mirror diameter and four integrated pzt (lead zirconate titanate) actuators is analyzed. the finite element method (fem) model developed and computed in comsol multiphysics (r) is used for calculating the eigenmodes of the mirror as well as for extracting a high order (n >10000) state space representation of the mirror dynamics with actuation voltages as system inputs and scanner displacement as system output. by applying model order reduction techniques using matlab (r) a compact state space system approximation of order n = 6 is computed. based on this reduced order model feedforward control inputs for different, properly chosen scanner displacement trajectories are derived and tested using the original fem model as well as the micromirror.
signal-flow_graph	there are various existing solution for solving the xor problem in artificial neural network. even the author in his previous work has proposed several solutions to the problem. in this paper we will see a new solution to the xor problem. the author has given a brief introduction to the artificial neural network concept. discussion on linear separablility and non-linear separability is made. fixation of the non-linearly separable problem is made. a solution to the non-linearly separable problem i.e. xor problem is proposed. architectural graph and signal flow graph proposing the final solution to the problem is given. mathematical explanation to the solution is given.
electrical_circuits	this paper investigates feasibility of developing a predictive rating method to optimize line rating of underground transmission lines based on weather forecast information. transmission lines, overhead or underground, are essential and indispensable parts of the electric grid which basically transfer energy from the production point to where it is needed. line rating defined as line 's maximum capacity to transfer electric current and power safely and reliably under certain constraints and criteria. to ensure safe operation, rating has been classically calculated according to the worst case scenario, where conductor 's temperature rise would remain within specified limit under most unfavorable conditions. obviously, such an approach leads to very conservative results, leaving line mostly underutilized throughout its life span. in order to optimize line utilization, ambient adjusted rating and more recently dynamic line rating methods are developed. for instance, in dynamic line rating, real-time data are used to determine instantaneous line rating. we have investigated necessity and possibility of developing a predictive model for underground transmission lines by employing weather forecast information, which would enable line operators or owners to anticipate optimized line ampacity and maximum rating over the next few days. the proposed basic model builds upon the already developed and well-documented analogy between thermal and electrical circuits, yet incorporates a time varying source to account for constantly changing ambient temperature. deterministic weather forecast information can be collected from environment canada.
lorentz_force_law	in this paper we will consider the nature of electrodynamics in an absolute euclidean space-time. consequently, we will also consider the nature of dynamics in general. rn many respects the situation is similar to that in (electro)dynamics in the theory of relativity. in other respects there are some pronounced differences. they lead, for instance, to new kinds of modifications of the lorentz force law as well as coulomb 's law. we will show how easily the null result of trouton 's experiment can be understood by means of this new kind of electrodynamics. in addition, we will investigate the consequences of the reversal of proper time. it turns out that our theory leads to the prediction of the possible existence of particles with new electromagnetic characteristics. finally, we will make a few remarks about the concept of an internal space in an absolute euclidean space-time.
system_identification	model-based fault diagnosis has attracted considerable attention from researchers and developers of flight control systems, thanks to its hardware simplicity and cost-effectiveness. however, the airplane model, which is adopted commonly in fault diagnosis, only exists theoretically and is linearized in approximation. for this reason, uncertainties such as system non-linearity and subjectivity will degrade the fault diagnosis results. in this paper, we propose a novel actuator fault diagnosis scheme for flight control systems based on model identification techniques. with this scheme, system identification can be achieved with a linear model that uses a closed-loop subspace model identification algorithm, and a non-linear model that uses an extended state observer and neural networks. on this basis, the current actuator fault is estimated using an adaptive two-stage kalman filter. finally, the non-linear six-degree-of-freedom model of a b747 airplane is simulated in the matlab/simulink environment, where the effectiveness of the proposed scheme is verified from fault diagnosis tests.
pid_controller	in this paper performance and stability analysis of lcl resonant converter is analyzed in presence of the source inductance. most of the researchers do not consider the source inductance value; they assumed it to be ideal. but in reality it has some negative impact over the systems stability and output of the system. resonant converter has wide applications in telecommunication, aerospace, radar power applications and power supplies. there are three topologies of rc 's like lcc, lcl and lcl-t rc. on comparing these three configurations of rc, the lcl rc has good stability region. stability analysis has been done by lyapunov stability analysis, root locus analysis and nyquist plot analysis. open loop response and closed loop response of pid controller is compared with and without source inductance and concluded that pid has better response than open loop system. the parameters like rise time, settling time and overshoot are taken in to account. the result of this paper proves that, on including source inductance, the rise time, settling time and overshoot becomes higher. the open loop system has 80% of increased oscillations and settling time. but on using pid controller the oscillations has been reduced to 50% and settling time also reduced. thus pid controller has better response than open loop system. these results are simulated using matlab/simulink software package.
voltage_law	a contact-free method to obtain the current-voltage characteristics (cvc) of hard superconductors by measuring the relaxation of the magnetization in a perpendicular magnetic field is developed. the relaxation curves obtained for melt-textured ybco samples are well fitted by curves calculated within the electrodynamic model using a power-law cvc. this procedure uses only two fitting parameters, namely, the critical sheet current j(c) and the exponent tit of the power-law cvc. (c) 2006 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
control_engineering	virtual and remote laboratories that are commonly used in engineering education are mainly designed using java programming language. the most popular and widely used learning management system is moodle. this paper describes the development of a virtual laboratory using easy java simulations software tool and its integration with e-learning tool moodle. the virtual laboratory demonstrates how easy java simulations and moodle are used in optimal control theory education by the example of the well-known brachistochrone problem solution.
